::::: {#main-content .SiteContent .SiteContent--default role="main"}
# Go 1.7 Release Notes

::: {#nav .TOC}
:::

::: markdown
## Introduction to Go 1.7 {#introduction}

The latest Go release, version 1.7, arrives six months after 1.6. Most
of its changes are in the implementation of the toolchain, runtime, and
libraries. There is one minor change to the language specification. As
always, the release maintains the Go 1 [promise of
compatibility](/doc/go1compat.html). We expect almost all Go programs to
continue to compile and run as before.

The release [adds a port to IBM LinuxOne](#ports); [updates the x86-64
compiler back end](#compiler) to generate more efficient code; includes
the [context package](#context), promoted from the [x/net
subrepository](https://golang.org/x/net/context){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"} and now used in the standard library; and [adds support
in the testing package](#testing) for creating hierarchies of tests and
benchmarks. The release also [finalizes the vendoring support](#cmd_go)
started in Go 1.5, making it a standard feature.

## Changes to the language {#language}

There is one tiny language change in this release. The section on
[terminating statements](/ref/spec#Terminating_statements) clarifies
that to determine whether a statement list ends in a terminating
statement, the "final non-empty statement" is considered the end,
matching the existing behavior of the gc and gccgo compiler toolchains.
In earlier releases the definition referred only to the "final
statement," leaving the effect of trailing empty statements at the least
unclear. The [`go/types`](/pkg/go/types/) package has been updated to
match the gc and gccgo compiler toolchains in this respect. This change
has no effect on the correctness of existing programs.

## Ports

Go 1.7 adds support for macOS 10.12 Sierra. Binaries built with versions
of Go before 1.7 will not work correctly on Sierra.

Go 1.7 adds an experimental port to [Linux on z
Systems](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linux_on_z_Systems){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"} (`linux/s390x`) and the beginning of a port to Plan 9
on ARM (`plan9/arm`).

The experimental ports to Linux on 64-bit MIPS (`linux/mips64` and
`linux/mips64le`) added in Go 1.6 now have full support for cgo and
external linking.

The experimental port to Linux on little-endian 64-bit PowerPC
(`linux/ppc64le`) now requires the POWER8 architecture or later.
Big-endian 64-bit PowerPC (`linux/ppc64`) only requires the POWER5
architecture.

The OpenBSD port now requires OpenBSD 5.6 or later, for access to the
[*getentropy*(2)](https://man.openbsd.org/getentropy.2){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"} system call.

### Known Issues {#known_issues}

There are some instabilities on FreeBSD that are known but not
understood. These can lead to program crashes in rare cases. See [issue
16136](/issue/16136), [issue 15658](/issue/15658), and [issue
16396](/issue/16396). Any help in solving these FreeBSD-specific issues
would be appreciated.

## Tools

### Assembler {#cmd_asm}

For 64-bit ARM systems, the vector register names have been corrected to
`V0` through `V31`; previous releases incorrectly referred to them as
`V32` through `V63`.

For 64-bit x86 systems, the following instructions have been added:
`PCMPESTRI`, `RORXL`, `RORXQ`, `VINSERTI128`, `VPADDD`, `VPADDQ`,
`VPALIGNR`, `VPBLENDD`, `VPERM2F128`, `VPERM2I128`, `VPOR`, `VPSHUFB`,
`VPSHUFD`, `VPSLLD`, `VPSLLDQ`, `VPSLLQ`, `VPSRLD`, `VPSRLDQ`, and
`VPSRLQ`.

### Compiler Toolchain {#compiler}

This release includes a new code generation back end for 64-bit x86
systems, following a [proposal from 2015](/s/go17ssa) that has been
under development since then. The new back end, based on
[SSA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Static_single_assignment_form){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"}, generates more compact, more efficient code and
provides a better platform for optimizations such as bounds check
elimination. The new back end reduces the CPU time required by our
benchmark programs by 5-35%.

For this release, the new back end can be disabled by passing `-ssa=0`
to the compiler. If you find that your program compiles or runs
successfully only with the new back end disabled, please [file a bug
report](/issue/new).

The format of exported metadata written by the compiler in package
archives has changed: the old textual format has been replaced by a more
compact binary format. This results in somewhat smaller package archives
and fixes a few long-standing corner case bugs.

For this release, the new export format can be disabled by passing
`-newexport=0` to the compiler. If you find that your program compiles
or runs successfully only with the new export format disabled, please
[file a bug report](/issue/new).

The linker's `-X` option no longer supports the unusual two-argument
form `-X` `name` `value`, as [announced](/doc/go1.6#compiler) in the Go
1.6 release and in warnings printed by the linker. Use `-X` `name=value`
instead.

The compiler and linker have been optimized and run significantly faster
in this release than in Go 1.6, although they are still slower than we
would like and will continue to be optimized in future releases.

Due to changes across the compiler toolchain and standard library,
binaries built with this release should typically be smaller than
binaries built with Go 1.6, sometimes by as much as 20-30%.

On x86-64 systems, Go programs now maintain stack frame pointers as
expected by profiling tools like Linux's perf and Intel's VTune, making
it easier to analyze and optimize Go programs using these tools. The
frame pointer maintenance has a small run-time overhead that varies but
averages around 2%. We hope to reduce this cost in future releases. To
build a toolchain that does not use frame pointers, set
`GOEXPERIMENT=noframepointer` when running `make.bash`, `make.bat`, or
`make.rc`.

### Cgo {#cmd_cgo}

Packages using [cgo](/cmd/cgo/) may now include Fortran source files (in
addition to C, C++, Objective C, and SWIG), although the Go bindings
must still use C language APIs.

Go bindings may now use a new helper function `C.CBytes`. In contrast to
`C.CString`, which takes a Go `string` and returns a `*C.byte` (a C
`char*`), `C.CBytes` takes a Go `[]byte` and returns an `unsafe.Pointer`
(a C `void*`).

Packages and binaries built using `cgo` have in past releases produced
different output on each build, due to the embedding of temporary
directory names. When using this release with new enough versions of GCC
or Clang (those that support the `-fdebug-prefix-map` option), those
builds should finally be deterministic.

### Gccgo

Due to the alignment of Go's semiannual release schedule with GCC's
annual release schedule, GCC release 6 contains the Go 1.6.1 version of
gccgo. The next release, GCC 7, will likely have the Go 1.8 version of
gccgo.

### Go command {#cmd_go}

The [`go`](/cmd/go/) command's basic operation is unchanged, but there
are a number of changes worth noting.

This release removes support for the `GO15VENDOREXPERIMENT` environment
variable, as [announced](/doc/go1.6#go_command) in the Go 1.6 release.
[Vendoring support](/s/go15vendor) is now a standard feature of the `go`
command and toolchain.

The `Package` data structure made available to "`go` `list`" now
includes a `StaleReason` field explaining why a particular package is or
is not considered stale (in need of rebuilding). This field is available
to the `-f` or `-json` options and is useful for understanding why a
target is being rebuilt.

The "`go` `get`" command now supports import paths referring to
`git.openstack.org`.

This release adds experimental, minimal support for building programs
using [binary-only packages](/pkg/go/build#hdr-Binary_Only_Packages),
packages distributed in binary form without the corresponding source
code. This feature is needed in some commercial settings but is not
intended to be fully integrated into the rest of the toolchain. For
example, tools that assume access to complete source code will not work
with such packages, and there are no plans to support such packages in
the "`go` `get`" command.

### Go doc {#cmd_doc}

The "`go` `doc`" command now groups constructors with the type they
construct, following [`godoc`](/cmd/godoc/).

### Go vet {#cmd_vet}

The "`go` `vet`" command has more accurate analysis in its `-copylock`
and `-printf` checks, and a new `-tests` check that checks the name and
signature of likely test functions. To avoid confusion with the new
`-tests` check, the old, unadvertised `-test` option has been removed;
it was equivalent to `-all` `-shadow`.

The `vet` command also has a new check, `-lostcancel`, which detects
failure to call the cancellation function returned by the `WithCancel`,
`WithTimeout`, and `WithDeadline` functions in Go 1.7's new `context`
package (see [below](#context)). Failure to call the function prevents
the new `Context` from being reclaimed until its parent is canceled.
(The background context is never canceled.)

### Go tool dist {#cmd_dist}

The new subcommand "`go` `tool` `dist` `list`" prints all supported
operating system/architecture pairs.

### Go tool trace {#cmd_trace}

The "`go` `tool` `trace`" command, [introduced in Go
1.5](/doc/go1.5#trace_command), has been refined in various ways.

First, collecting traces is significantly more efficient than in past
releases. In this release, the typical execution-time overhead of
collecting a trace is about 25%; in past releases it was at least 400%.
Second, trace files now include file and line number information, making
them more self-contained and making the original executable optional
when running the trace tool. Third, the trace tool now breaks up large
traces to avoid limits in the browser-based viewer.

Although the trace file format has changed in this release, the Go 1.7
tools can still read traces from earlier releases.

## Performance

As always, the changes are so general and varied that precise statements
about performance are difficult to make. Most programs should run a bit
faster, due to speedups in the garbage collector and optimizations in
the core library. On x86-64 systems, many programs will run
significantly faster, due to improvements in generated code brought by
the new compiler back end. As noted above, in our own benchmarks, the
code generation changes alone typically reduce program CPU time by
5-35%.

There have been significant optimizations bringing more than 10%
improvements to implementations in the
[`crypto/sha1`](/pkg/crypto/sha1/),
[`crypto/sha256`](/pkg/crypto/sha256/),
[`encoding/binary`](/pkg/encoding/binary/), [`fmt`](/pkg/fmt/),
[`hash/adler32`](/pkg/hash/adler32/), [`hash/crc32`](/pkg/hash/crc32/),
[`hash/crc64`](/pkg/hash/crc64/), [`image/color`](/pkg/image/color/),
[`math/big`](/pkg/math/big/), [`strconv`](/pkg/strconv/),
[`strings`](/pkg/strings/), [`unicode`](/pkg/unicode/), and
[`unicode/utf16`](/pkg/unicode/utf16/) packages.

Garbage collection pauses should be significantly shorter than they were
in Go 1.6 for programs with large numbers of idle goroutines,
substantial stack size fluctuation, or large package-level variables.

## Standard library {#library}

### Context

Go 1.7 moves the `golang.org/x/net/context` package into the standard
library as [`context`](/pkg/context/). This allows the use of contexts
for cancellation, timeouts, and passing request-scoped data in other
standard library packages, including [net](#net), [net/http](#net_http),
and [os/exec](#os_exec), as noted below.

For more information about contexts, see the [package
documentation](/pkg/context/) and the Go blog post "[Go Concurrent
Patterns: Context](/blog/context)."

### HTTP Tracing {#httptrace}

Go 1.7 introduces [`net/http/httptrace`](/pkg/net/http/httptrace/), a
package that provides mechanisms for tracing events within HTTP
requests.

### Testing

The `testing` package now supports the definition of tests with subtests
and benchmarks with sub-benchmarks. This support makes it easy to write
table-driven benchmarks and to create hierarchical tests. It also
provides a way to share common setup and tear-down code. See the
[package documentation](/pkg/testing/#hdr-Subtests_and_Sub_benchmarks)
for details.

### Runtime

All panics started by the runtime now use panic values that implement
both the builtin [`error`](/ref/spec#Errors), and
[`runtime.Error`](/pkg/runtime/#Error), as [required by the language
specification](/ref/spec#Run_time_panics).

During panics, if a signal's name is known, it will be printed in the
stack trace. Otherwise, the signal's number will be used, as it was
before Go1.7.

The new function [`KeepAlive`](/pkg/runtime/#KeepAlive) provides an
explicit mechanism for declaring that an allocated object must be
considered reachable at a particular point in a program, typically to
delay the execution of an associated finalizer.

The new function [`CallersFrames`](/pkg/runtime/#CallersFrames)
translates a PC slice obtained from [`Callers`](/pkg/runtime/#Callers)
into a sequence of frames corresponding to the call stack. This new API
should be preferred instead of direct use of
[`FuncForPC`](/pkg/runtime/#FuncForPC), because the frame sequence can
more accurately describe call stacks with inlined function calls.

The new function [`SetCgoTraceback`](/pkg/runtime/#SetCgoTraceback)
facilitates tighter integration between Go and C code executing in the
same process called using cgo.

On 32-bit systems, the runtime can now use memory allocated by the
operating system anywhere in the address space, eliminating the "memory
allocated by OS not in usable range" failure common in some
environments.

The runtime can now return unused memory to the operating system on all
architectures. In Go 1.6 and earlier, the runtime could not release
memory on ARM64, 64-bit PowerPC, or MIPS.

On Windows, Go programs in Go 1.5 and earlier forced the global Windows
timer resolution to 1ms at startup by calling `timeBeginPeriod(1)`.
Changing the global timer resolution caused problems on some systems,
and testing suggested that the call was not needed for good scheduler
performance, so Go 1.6 removed the call. Go 1.7 brings the call back:
under some workloads the call is still needed for good scheduler
performance.

### Minor changes to the library {#minor_library_changes}

As always, there are various minor changes and updates to the library,
made with the Go 1 [promise of compatibility](/doc/go1compat) in mind.

#### [bufio](/pkg/bufio/) {#bufiopkgbufio}

In previous releases of Go, if [`Reader`](/pkg/bufio/#Reader)'s
[`Peek`](/pkg/bufio/#Reader.Peek) method were asked for more bytes than
fit in the underlying buffer, it would return an empty slice and the
error `ErrBufferFull`. Now it returns the entire underlying buffer,
still accompanied by the error `ErrBufferFull`.

#### [bytes](/pkg/bytes/) {#bytespkgbytes}

The new functions [`ContainsAny`](/pkg/bytes/#ContainsAny) and
[`ContainsRune`](/pkg/bytes/#ContainsRune) have been added for symmetry
with the [`strings`](/pkg/strings/) package.

In previous releases of Go, if [`Reader`](/pkg/bytes/#Reader)'s
[`Read`](/pkg/bytes/#Reader.Read) method were asked for zero bytes with
no data remaining, it would return a count of 0 and no error. Now it
returns a count of 0 and the error [`io.EOF`](/pkg/io/#EOF).

The [`Reader`](/pkg/bytes/#Reader) type has a new method
[`Reset`](/pkg/bytes/#Reader.Reset) to allow reuse of a `Reader`.

#### [compress/flate](/pkg/compress/flate/) {#compressflatepkgcompressflate}

There are many performance optimizations throughout the package.
Decompression speed is improved by about 10%, while compression for
`DefaultCompression` is twice as fast.

In addition to those general improvements, the `BestSpeed` compressor
has been replaced entirely and uses an algorithm similar to
[Snappy](https://github.com/google/snappy){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"}, resulting in about a 2.5X speed increase, although the
output can be 5-10% larger than with the previous algorithm.

There is also a new compression level `HuffmanOnly` that applies Huffman
but not Lempel-Ziv encoding. [Forgoing Lempel-Ziv
encoding](https://blog.klauspost.com/constant-time-gzipzip-compression/){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"} means that `HuffmanOnly` runs about 3X faster than the
new `BestSpeed` but at the cost of producing compressed outputs that are
20-40% larger than those generated by the new `BestSpeed`.

It is important to note that both `BestSpeed` and `HuffmanOnly` produce
a compressed output that is [RFC
1951](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1951){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"} compliant. In other words, any valid DEFLATE
decompressor will continue to be able to decompress these outputs.

Lastly, there is a minor change to the decompressor's implementation of
[`io.Reader`](/pkg/io/#Reader). In previous versions, the decompressor
deferred reporting [`io.EOF`](/pkg/io/#EOF) until exactly no more bytes
could be read. Now, it reports [`io.EOF`](/pkg/io/#EOF) more eagerly
when reading the last set of bytes.

#### [crypto/tls](/pkg/crypto/tls/) {#cryptotlspkgcryptotls}

The TLS implementation sends the first few data packets on each
connection using small record sizes, gradually increasing to the TLS
maximum record size. This heuristic reduces the amount of data that must
be received before the first packet can be decrypted, improving
communication latency over low-bandwidth networks. Setting
[`Config`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#Config)'s `DynamicRecordSizingDisabled`
field to true forces the behavior of Go 1.6 and earlier, where packets
are as large as possible from the start of the connection.

The TLS client now has optional, limited support for server-initiated
renegotiation, enabled by setting the
[`Config`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#Config)'s `Renegotiation` field. This is
needed for connecting to many Microsoft Azure servers.

The errors returned by the package now consistently begin with a `tls:`
prefix. In past releases, some errors used a `crypto/tls:` prefix, some
used a `tls:` prefix, and some had no prefix at all.

When generating self-signed certificates, the package no longer sets the
"Authority Key Identifier" field by default.

#### [crypto/x509](/pkg/crypto/x509/) {#cryptox509pkgcryptox509}

The new function [`SystemCertPool`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#SystemCertPool)
provides access to the entire system certificate pool if available.
There is also a new associated error type
[`SystemRootsError`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#SystemRootsError).

#### [debug/dwarf](/pkg/debug/dwarf/) {#debugdwarfpkgdebugdwarf}

The [`Reader`](/pkg/debug/dwarf/#Reader) type's new
[`SeekPC`](/pkg/debug/dwarf/#Reader.SeekPC) method and the
[`Data`](/pkg/debug/dwarf/#Data) type's new
[`Ranges`](/pkg/debug/dwarf/#Ranges) method help to find the compilation
unit to pass to a [`LineReader`](/pkg/debug/dwarf/#LineReader) and to
identify the specific function for a given program counter.

#### [debug/elf](/pkg/debug/elf/) {#debugelfpkgdebugelf}

The new [`R_390`](/pkg/debug/elf/#R_390) relocation type and its many
predefined constants support the S390 port.

#### [encoding/asn1](/pkg/encoding/asn1/) {#encodingasn1pkgencodingasn1}

The ASN.1 decoder now rejects non-minimal integer encodings. This may
cause the package to reject some invalid but formerly accepted ASN.1
data.

#### [encoding/json](/pkg/encoding/json/) {#encodingjsonpkgencodingjson}

The [`Encoder`](/pkg/encoding/json/#Encoder)'s new
[`SetIndent`](/pkg/encoding/json/#Encoder.SetIndent) method sets the
indentation parameters for JSON encoding, like in the top-level
[`Indent`](/pkg/encoding/json/#Indent) function.

The [`Encoder`](/pkg/encoding/json/#Encoder)'s new
[`SetEscapeHTML`](/pkg/encoding/json/#Encoder.SetEscapeHTML) method
controls whether the `&`, `<`, and `>` characters in quoted strings
should be escaped as `\u0026`, `\u003c`, and `\u003e`, respectively. As
in previous releases, the encoder defaults to applying this escaping, to
avoid certain problems that can arise when embedding JSON in HTML.

In earlier versions of Go, this package only supported encoding and
decoding maps using keys with string types. Go 1.7 adds support for maps
using keys with integer types: the encoding uses a quoted decimal
representation as the JSON key. Go 1.7 also adds support for encoding
maps using non-string keys that implement the `MarshalText` (see
[`encoding.TextMarshaler`](/pkg/encoding/#TextMarshaler)) method, as
well as support for decoding maps using non-string keys that implement
the `UnmarshalText` (see
[`encoding.TextUnmarshaler`](/pkg/encoding/#TextUnmarshaler)) method.
These methods are ignored for keys with string types in order to
preserve the encoding and decoding used in earlier versions of Go.

When encoding a slice of typed bytes,
[`Marshal`](/pkg/encoding/json/#Marshal) now generates an array of
elements encoded using that byte type's `MarshalJSON` or `MarshalText`
method if present, only falling back to the default base64-encoded
string data if neither method is available. Earlier versions of Go
accept both the original base64-encoded string encoding and the array
encoding (assuming the byte type also implements `UnmarshalJSON` or
`UnmarshalText` as appropriate), so this change should be semantically
backwards compatible with earlier versions of Go, even though it does
change the chosen encoding.

#### [go/build](/pkg/go/build/) {#gobuildpkggobuild}

To implement the go command's new support for binary-only packages and
for Fortran code in cgo-based packages, the
[`Package`](/pkg/go/build/#Package) type adds new fields `BinaryOnly`,
`CgoFFLAGS`, and `FFiles`.

#### [go/doc](/pkg/go/doc/) {#godocpkggodoc}

To support the corresponding change in `go` `test` described above,
[`Example`](/pkg/go/doc/#Example) struct adds an Unordered field
indicating whether the example may generate its output lines in any
order.

#### [io](/pkg/io/) {#iopkgio}

The package adds new constants `SeekStart`, `SeekCurrent`, and
`SeekEnd`, for use with [`Seeker`](/pkg/io/#Seeker) implementations.
These constants are preferred over `os.SEEK_SET`, `os.SEEK_CUR`, and
`os.SEEK_END`, but the latter will be preserved for compatibility.

#### [math/big](/pkg/math/big/) {#mathbigpkgmathbig}

The [`Float`](/pkg/math/big/#Float) type adds
[`GobEncode`](/pkg/math/big/#Float.GobEncode) and
[`GobDecode`](/pkg/math/big/#Float.GobDecode) methods, so that values of
type `Float` can now be encoded and decoded using the
[`encoding/gob`](/pkg/encoding/gob/) package.

#### [math/rand](/pkg/math/rand/) {#mathrandpkgmathrand}

The [`Read`](/pkg/math/rand/#Read) function and
[`Rand`](/pkg/math/rand/#Rand)'s [`Read`](/pkg/math/rand/#Rand.Read)
method now produce a pseudo-random stream of bytes that is consistent
and not dependent on the size of the input buffer.

The documentation clarifies that Rand's
[`Seed`](/pkg/math/rand/#Rand.Seed) and
[`Read`](/pkg/math/rand/#Rand.Read) methods are not safe to call
concurrently, though the global functions [`Seed`](/pkg/math/rand/#Seed)
and [`Read`](/pkg/math/rand/#Read) are (and have always been) safe.

#### [mime/multipart](/pkg/mime/multipart/) {#mimemultipartpkgmimemultipart}

The [`Writer`](/pkg/mime/multipart/#Writer) implementation now emits
each multipart section's header sorted by key. Previously, iteration
over a map caused the section header to use a non-deterministic order.

#### [net](/pkg/net/) {#netpkgnet}

As part of the introduction of [context](#context), the
[`Dialer`](/pkg/net/#Dialer) type has a new method
[`DialContext`](/pkg/net/#Dialer.DialContext), like
[`Dial`](/pkg/net/#Dialer.Dial) but adding the
[`context.Context`](/pkg/context/#Context) for the dial operation. The
context is intended to obsolete the `Dialer`'s `Cancel` and `Deadline`
fields, but the implementation continues to respect them, for backwards
compatibility.

The [`IP`](/pkg/net/#IP) type's [`String`](/pkg/net/#IP.String) method
has changed its result for invalid `IP` addresses. In past releases, if
an `IP` byte slice had length other than 0, 4, or 16, `String` returned
`"?"`. Go 1.7 adds the hexadecimal encoding of the bytes, as in
`"?12ab"`.

The pure Go [name resolution](/pkg/net/#hdr-Name_Resolution)
implementation now respects `nsswitch.conf`'s stated preference for the
priority of DNS lookups compared to local file (that is, `/etc/hosts`)
lookups.

#### [net/http](/pkg/net/http/) {#nethttppkgnethttp}

[`ResponseWriter`](/pkg/net/http/#ResponseWriter)'s documentation now
makes clear that beginning to write the response may prevent future
reads on the request body. For maximal compatibility, implementations
are encouraged to read the request body completely before writing any
part of the response.

As part of the introduction of [context](#context), the
[`Request`](/pkg/net/http/#Request) has a new methods
[`Context`](/pkg/net/http/#Request.Context), to retrieve the associated
context, and [`WithContext`](/pkg/net/http/#Request.WithContext), to
construct a copy of `Request` with a modified context.

In the [`Server`](/pkg/net/http/#Server) implementation,
[`Serve`](/pkg/net/http/#Server.Serve) records in the request context
both the underlying `*Server` using the key `ServerContextKey` and the
local address on which the request was received (a
[`Addr`](/pkg/net/#Addr)) using the key `LocalAddrContextKey`. For
example, the address on which a request received is
`req.Context().Value(http.LocalAddrContextKey).(net.Addr)`.

The server's [`Serve`](/pkg/net/http/#Server.Serve) method now only
enables HTTP/2 support if the `Server.TLSConfig` field is `nil` or
includes `"h2"` in its `TLSConfig.NextProtos`.

The server implementation now pads response codes less than 100 to three
digits as required by the protocol, so that `w.WriteHeader(5)` uses the
HTTP response status `005`, not just `5`.

The server implementation now correctly sends only one
"Transfer-Encoding" header when "chunked" is set explicitly, following
[RFC
7230](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7230#section-3.3.1){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"}.

The server implementation is now stricter about rejecting requests with
invalid HTTP versions. Invalid requests claiming to be HTTP/0.x are now
rejected (HTTP/0.9 was never fully supported), and plaintext HTTP/2
requests other than the "PRI \* HTTP/2.0" upgrade request are now
rejected as well. The server continues to handle encrypted HTTP/2
requests.

In the server, a 200 status code is sent back by the timeout handler on
an empty response body, instead of sending back 0 as the status code.

In the client, the [`Transport`](/pkg/net/http/#Transport)
implementation passes the request context to any dial operation
connecting to the remote server. If a custom dialer is needed, the new
`Transport` field `DialContext` is preferred over the existing `Dial`
field, to allow the transport to supply a context.

The [`Transport`](/pkg/net/http/#Transport) also adds fields
`IdleConnTimeout`, `MaxIdleConns`, and `MaxResponseHeaderBytes` to help
control client resources consumed by idle or chatty servers.

A [`Client`](/pkg/net/http/#Client)'s configured `CheckRedirect`
function can now return `ErrUseLastResponse` to indicate that the most
recent redirect response should be returned as the result of the HTTP
request. That response is now available to the `CheckRedirect` function
as `req.Response`.

Since Go 1, the default behavior of the HTTP client is to request
server-side compression using the `Accept-Encoding` request header and
then to decompress the response body transparently, and this behavior is
adjustable using the [`Transport`](/pkg/net/http/#Transport)'s
`DisableCompression` field. In Go 1.7, to aid the implementation of HTTP
proxies, the [`Response`](/pkg/net/http/#Response)'s new `Uncompressed`
field reports whether this transparent decompression took place.

[`DetectContentType`](/pkg/net/http/#DetectContentType) adds support for
a few new audio and video content types.

#### [net/http/cgi](/pkg/net/http/cgi/) {#nethttpcgipkgnethttpcgi}

The [`Handler`](/pkg/net/http/cgi/#Handler) adds a new field `Stderr`
that allows redirection of the child process's standard error away from
the host process's standard error.

#### [net/http/httptest](/pkg/net/http/httptest/) {#nethttphttptestpkgnethttphttptest}

The new function [`NewRequest`](/pkg/net/http/httptest/#NewRequest)
prepares a new [`http.Request`](/pkg/net/http/#Request) suitable for
passing to an [`http.Handler`](/pkg/net/http/#Handler) during a test.

The [`ResponseRecorder`](/pkg/net/http/httptest/#ResponseRecorder)'s new
[`Result`](/pkg/net/http/httptest/#ResponseRecorder.Result) method
returns the recorded [`http.Response`](/pkg/net/http/#Response). Tests
that need to check the response's headers or trailers should call
`Result` and inspect the response fields instead of accessing
`ResponseRecorder`'s `HeaderMap` directly.

#### [net/http/httputil](/pkg/net/http/httputil/) {#nethttphttputilpkgnethttphttputil}

The [`ReverseProxy`](/pkg/net/http/httputil/#ReverseProxy)
implementation now responds with "502 Bad Gateway" when it cannot reach
a back end; in earlier releases it responded with "500 Internal Server
Error."

Both [`ClientConn`](/pkg/net/http/httputil/#ClientConn) and
[`ServerConn`](/pkg/net/http/httputil/#ServerConn) have been documented
as deprecated. They are low-level, old, and unused by Go's current HTTP
stack and will no longer be updated. Programs should use
[`http.Client`](/pkg/net/http/#Client),
[`http.Transport`](/pkg/net/http/#Transport), and
[`http.Server`](/pkg/net/http/#Server) instead.

#### [net/http/pprof](/pkg/net/http/pprof/) {#nethttppprofpkgnethttppprof}

The runtime trace HTTP handler, installed to handle the path
`/debug/pprof/trace`, now accepts a fractional number in its `seconds`
query parameter, allowing collection of traces for intervals smaller
than one second. This is especially useful on busy servers.

#### [net/mail](/pkg/net/mail/) {#netmailpkgnetmail}

The address parser now allows unescaped UTF-8 text in addresses
following [RFC
6532](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6532){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"}, but it does not apply any normalization to the result.
For compatibility with older mail parsers, the address encoder, namely
[`Address`](/pkg/net/mail/#Address)'s
[`String`](/pkg/net/mail/#Address.String) method, continues to escape
all UTF-8 text following [RFC
5322](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5322){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"}.

The [`ParseAddress`](/pkg/net/mail/#ParseAddress) function and the
[`AddressParser.Parse`](/pkg/net/mail/#AddressParser.Parse) method are
stricter. They used to ignore any characters following an e-mail
address, but will now return an error for anything other than
whitespace.

#### [net/url](/pkg/net/url/) {#neturlpkgneturl}

The [`URL`](/pkg/net/url/#URL)'s new `ForceQuery` field records whether
the URL must have a query string, in order to distinguish URLs without
query strings (like `/search`) from URLs with empty query strings (like
`/search?`).

#### [os](/pkg/os/) {#ospkgos}

[`IsExist`](/pkg/os/#IsExist) now returns true for `syscall.ENOTEMPTY`,
on systems where that error exists.

On Windows, [`Remove`](/pkg/os/#Remove) now removes read-only files when
possible, making the implementation behave as on non-Windows systems.

#### [os/exec](/pkg/os/exec/) {#osexecpkgosexec}

As part of the introduction of [context](#context), the new constructor
[`CommandContext`](/pkg/os/exec/#CommandContext) is like
[`Command`](/pkg/os/exec/#Command) but includes a context that can be
used to cancel the command execution.

#### [os/user](/pkg/os/user/) {#osuserpkgosuser}

The [`Current`](/pkg/os/user/#Current) function is now implemented even
when cgo is not available.

The new [`Group`](/pkg/os/user/#Group) type, along with the lookup
functions [`LookupGroup`](/pkg/os/user/#LookupGroup) and
[`LookupGroupId`](/pkg/os/user/#LookupGroupId) and the new field
`GroupIds` in the `User` struct, provides access to system-specific user
group information.

#### [reflect](/pkg/reflect/) {#reflectpkgreflect}

Although [`Value`](/pkg/reflect/#Value)'s
[`Field`](/pkg/reflect/#Value.Field) method has always been documented
to panic if the given field number `i` is out of range, it has instead
silently returned a zero [`Value`](/pkg/reflect/#Value). Go 1.7 changes
the method to behave as documented.

The new [`StructOf`](/pkg/reflect/#StructOf) function constructs a
struct type at run time. It completes the set of type constructors,
joining [`ArrayOf`](/pkg/reflect/#ArrayOf),
[`ChanOf`](/pkg/reflect/#ChanOf), [`FuncOf`](/pkg/reflect/#FuncOf),
[`MapOf`](/pkg/reflect/#MapOf), [`PtrTo`](/pkg/reflect/#PtrTo), and
[`SliceOf`](/pkg/reflect/#SliceOf).

[`StructTag`](/pkg/reflect/#StructTag)'s new method
[`Lookup`](/pkg/reflect/#StructTag.Lookup) is like
[`Get`](/pkg/reflect/#StructTag.Get) but distinguishes the tag not
containing the given key from the tag associating an empty string with
the given key.

The [`Method`](/pkg/reflect/#Type.Method) and
[`NumMethod`](/pkg/reflect/#Type.NumMethod) methods of
[`Type`](/pkg/reflect/#Type) and [`Value`](/pkg/reflect/#Value) no
longer return or count unexported methods.

#### [strings](/pkg/strings/) {#stringspkgstrings}

In previous releases of Go, if [`Reader`](/pkg/strings/#Reader)'s
[`Read`](/pkg/strings/#Reader.Read) method were asked for zero bytes
with no data remaining, it would return a count of 0 and no error. Now
it returns a count of 0 and the error [`io.EOF`](/pkg/io/#EOF).

The [`Reader`](/pkg/strings/#Reader) type has a new method
[`Reset`](/pkg/strings/#Reader.Reset) to allow reuse of a `Reader`.

#### [time](/pkg/time/) {#timepkgtime}

[`Duration`](/pkg/time/#Duration)'s time.Duration.String method now
reports the zero duration as `"0s"`, not `"0"`.
[`ParseDuration`](/pkg/time/#ParseDuration) continues to accept both
forms.

The method call `time.Local.String()` now returns `"Local"` on all
systems; in earlier releases, it returned an empty string on Windows.

The time zone database in `$GOROOT/lib/time` has been updated to IANA
release 2016d. This fallback database is only used when the system time
zone database cannot be found, for example on Windows. The Windows time
zone abbreviation list has also been updated.

#### [syscall](/pkg/syscall/) {#syscallpkgsyscall}

On Linux, the [`SysProcAttr`](/pkg/syscall/#SysProcAttr) struct (as used
in [`os/exec.Cmd`](/pkg/os/exec/#Cmd)'s `SysProcAttr` field) has a new
`Unshareflags` field. If the field is nonzero, the child process created
by [`ForkExec`](/pkg/syscall/#ForkExec) (as used in `exec.Cmd`'s `Run`
method) will call the
[*unshare*(2)](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/unshare.2.html){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"} system call before executing the new program.

#### [unicode](/pkg/unicode/) {#unicodepkgunicode}

The [`unicode`](/pkg/unicode/) package and associated support throughout
the system has been upgraded from version 8.0 to [Unicode
9.0](https://www.unicode.org/versions/Unicode9.0.0/){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"}.
:::
:::::
