::::: {#main-content .SiteContent .SiteContent--default role="main"}
# Go 1.18 Release Notes

::: {#nav .TOC}
:::

::: markdown
## Introduction to Go 1.18 {#introduction}

The latest Go release, version 1.18, is a significant release, including
changes to the language, implementation of the toolchain, runtime, and
libraries. Go 1.18 arrives seven months after [Go 1.17](/doc/go1.17). As
always, the release maintains the Go 1 [promise of
compatibility](/doc/go1compat). We expect almost all Go programs to
continue to compile and run as before.

## Changes to the language {#language}

### Generics

Go 1.18 includes an implementation of generic features as described by
the [Type Parameters
Proposal](https://go.googlesource.com/proposal/+/refs/heads/master/design/43651-type-parameters.md){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"}. This includes major - but fully backward-compatible -
changes to the language.

These new language changes required a large amount of new code that has
not had significant testing in production settings. That will only
happen as more people write and use generic code. We believe that this
feature is well implemented and high quality. However, unlike most
aspects of Go, we can't back up that belief with real world experience.
Therefore, while we encourage the use of generics where it makes sense,
please use appropriate caution when deploying generic code in
production.

While we believe that the new language features are well designed and
clearly specified, it is possible that we have made mistakes. We want to
stress that the [Go 1 compatibility guarantee](/doc/go1compat) says "If
it becomes necessary to address an inconsistency or incompleteness in
the specification, resolving the issue could affect the meaning or
legality of existing programs. We reserve the right to address such
issues, including updating the implementations." It also says "If a
compiler or library has a bug that violates the specification, a program
that depends on the buggy behavior may break if the bug is fixed. We
reserve the right to fix such bugs." In other words, it is possible that
there will be code using generics that will work with the 1.18 release
but break in later releases. We do not plan or expect to make any such
change. However, breaking 1.18 programs in future releases may become
necessary for reasons that we cannot today foresee. We will minimize any
such breakage as much as possible, but we can't guarantee that the
breakage will be zero.

The following is a list of the most visible changes. For a more
comprehensive overview, see the
[proposal](https://go.googlesource.com/proposal/+/refs/heads/master/design/43651-type-parameters.md){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"}. For details see the [language spec](/ref/spec).

- The syntax for [function](/ref/spec#Function_declarations) and [type
  declarations](/ref/spec#Type_declarations) now accepts [type
  parameters](/ref/spec#Type_parameter_declarations).
- Parameterized functions and types can be instantiated by following
  them with a list of type arguments in square brackets.
- The new token `~` has been added to the set of [operators and
  punctuation](/ref/spec#Operators_and_punctuation).
- The syntax for [Interface types](/ref/spec#Interface_types) now
  permits the embedding of arbitrary types (not just type names of
  interfaces) as well as union and `~T` type elements. Such interfaces
  may only be used as type constraints. An interface now defines a set
  of types as well as a set of methods.
- The new [predeclared identifier](/ref/spec#Predeclared_identifiers)
  `any` is an alias for the empty interface. It may be used instead of
  `interface{}`.
- The new [predeclared identifier](/ref/spec#Predeclared_identifiers)
  `comparable` is an interface that denotes the set of all types which
  can be compared using `==` or `!=`. It may only be used as (or
  embedded in) a type constraint.

There are three experimental packages using generics that may be useful.
These packages are in x/exp repository; their API is not covered by the
Go 1 guarantee and may change as we gain more experience with generics.

#### [`golang.org/x/exp/constraints`](https://pkg.go.dev/golang.org/x/exp/constraints){rel="noreferrer" target="_blank"} {#golangorgxexpconstraintshttpspkggodevgolangorgxexpconstraints}

Constraints that are useful for generic code, such as
[`constraints.Ordered`](https://pkg.go.dev/golang.org/x/exp/constraints#Ordered){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"}.

#### [`golang.org/x/exp/slices`](https://pkg.go.dev/golang.org/x/exp/slices){rel="noreferrer" target="_blank"} {#golangorgxexpsliceshttpspkggodevgolangorgxexpslices}

A collection of generic functions that operate on slices of any element
type.

#### [`golang.org/x/exp/maps`](https://pkg.go.dev/golang.org/x/exp/maps){rel="noreferrer" target="_blank"} {#golangorgxexpmapshttpspkggodevgolangorgxexpmaps}

A collection of generic functions that operate on maps of any key or
element type.

The current generics implementation has the following known limitations:

- The Go compiler cannot handle type declarations inside generic
  functions or methods. We hope to provide support for this feature in a
  future release.
- The Go compiler does not accept arguments of type parameter type with
  the predeclared functions `real`, `imag`, and `complex`. We hope to
  remove this restriction in a future release.
- The Go compiler only supports calling a method `m` on a value `x` of
  type parameter type `P` if `m` is explicitly declared by `P`'s
  constraint interface. Similarly, method values `x.m` and method
  expressions `P.m` also are only supported if `m` is explicitly
  declared by `P`, even though `m` might be in the method set of `P` by
  virtue of the fact that all types in `P` implement `m`. We hope to
  remove this restriction in a future release.
- The Go compiler does not support accessing a struct field `x.f` where
  `x` is of type parameter type even if all types in the type
  parameter's type set have a field `f`. We may remove this restriction
  in a future release.
- Embedding a type parameter, or a pointer to a type parameter, as an
  unnamed field in a struct type is not permitted. Similarly, embedding
  a type parameter in an interface type is not permitted. Whether these
  will ever be permitted is unclear at present.
- A union element with more than one term may not contain an interface
  type with a non-empty method set. Whether this will ever be permitted
  is unclear at present.

Generics also represent a large change for the Go ecosystem. While we
have updated several core tools with generics support, there is much
more to do. It will take time for remaining tools, documentation, and
libraries to catch up with these language changes.

### Bug fixes {#bug_fixes}

The Go 1.18 compiler now correctly reports `declared but not used`
errors for variables that are set inside a function literal but are
never used. Before Go 1.18, the compiler did not report an error in such
cases. This fixes long-outstanding compiler issue [#8560](/issue/8560).
As a result of this change, (possibly incorrect) programs may not
compile anymore. The necessary fix is straightforward: fix the program
if it was in fact incorrect, or use the offending variable, for instance
by assigning it to the blank identifier `_`. Since `go vet` always
pointed out this error, the number of affected programs is likely very
small.

The Go 1.18 compiler now reports an overflow when passing a rune
constant expression such as `'1' << 32` as an argument to the
predeclared functions `print` and `println`, consistent with the
behavior of user-defined functions. Before Go 1.18, the compiler did not
report an error in such cases but silently accepted such constant
arguments if they fit into an `int64`. As a result of this change,
(possibly incorrect) programs may not compile anymore. The necessary fix
is straightforward: fix the program if it was in fact incorrect, or
explicitly convert the offending argument to the correct type. Since
`go vet` always pointed out this error, the number of affected programs
is likely very small.

## Ports

### AMD64

Go 1.18 introduces the new `GOAMD64` environment variable, which selects
at compile time a minimum target version of the AMD64 architecture.
Allowed values are `v1`, `v2`, `v3`, or `v4`. Each higher level
requires, and takes advantage of, additional processor features. A
detailed description can be found
[here](/wiki/MinimumRequirements#amd64).

The `GOAMD64` environment variable defaults to `v1`.

### RISC-V {#riscv}

The 64-bit RISC-V architecture on Linux (the `linux/riscv64` port) now
supports the `c-archive` and `c-shared` build modes.

### Linux

Go 1.18 requires Linux kernel version 2.6.32 or later.

### Windows

The `windows/arm` and `windows/arm64` ports now support non-cooperative
preemption, bringing that capability to all four Windows ports, which
should hopefully address subtle bugs encountered when calling into Win32
functions that block for extended periods of time.

### iOS

On iOS (the `ios/arm64` port) and iOS simulator running on AMD64-based
macOS (the `ios/amd64` port), Go 1.18 now requires iOS 12 or later;
support for previous versions has been discontinued.

### FreeBSD

Go 1.18 is the last release that is supported on FreeBSD 11.x, which has
already reached end-of-life. Go 1.19 will require FreeBSD 12.2+ or
FreeBSD 13.0+. FreeBSD 13.0+ will require a kernel with the
COMPAT_FREEBSD12 option set (this is the default).

## Tools

### Fuzzing

Go 1.18 includes an implementation of fuzzing as described by [the
fuzzing proposal](/issue/44551).

See the [fuzzing landing page](/security/fuzz) to get started.

Please be aware that fuzzing can consume a lot of memory and may impact
your machine's performance while it runs. Also be aware that the fuzzing
engine writes values that expand test coverage to a fuzz cache directory
within `$GOCACHE/fuzz` while it runs. There is currently no limit to the
number of files or total bytes that may be written to the fuzz cache, so
it may occupy a large amount of storage (possibly several GBs).

### Go command

#### `go` `get`

`go` `get` no longer builds or installs packages in module-aware mode.
`go` `get` is now dedicated to adjusting dependencies in `go.mod`.
Effectively, the `-d` flag is always enabled. To install the latest
version of an executable outside the context of the current module, use
[`go` `install` `example.com/cmd@latest`](/ref/mod#go-install). Any
[version query](/ref/mod#version-queries) may be used instead of
`latest`. This form of `go` `install` was added in Go 1.16, so projects
supporting older versions may need to provide install instructions for
both `go` `install` and `go` `get`. `go` `get` now reports an error when
used outside a module, since there is no `go.mod` file to update. In
GOPATH mode (with `GO111MODULE=off`), `go` `get` still builds and
installs packages, as before.

#### Automatic `go.mod` and `go.sum` updates {#go-mod-updates}

The `go` `mod` `graph`, `go` `mod` `vendor`, `go` `mod` `verify`, and
`go` `mod` `why` subcommands no longer automatically update the `go.mod`
and `go.sum` files. (Those files can be updated explicitly using `go`
`get`, `go` `mod` `tidy`, or `go` `mod` `download`.)

#### `go` `version`

The `go` command now embeds version control information in binaries. It
includes the currently checked-out revision, commit time, and a flag
indicating whether edited or untracked files are present. Version
control information is embedded if the `go` command is invoked in a
directory within a Git, Mercurial, Fossil, or Bazaar repository, and the
`main` package and its containing main module are in the same
repository. This information may be omitted using the flag
`-buildvcs=false`.

Additionally, the `go` command embeds information about the build,
including build and tool tags (set with `-tags`), compiler, assembler,
and linker flags (like `-gcflags`), whether cgo was enabled, and if it
was, the values of the cgo environment variables (like `CGO_CFLAGS`).
Both VCS and build information may be read together with module
information using `go` `version` `-m` `file` or
`runtime/debug.ReadBuildInfo` (for the currently running binary) or the
new [`debug/buildinfo`](#debug/buildinfo) package.

The underlying data format of the embedded build information can change
with new go releases, so an older version of `go` may not handle the
build information produced with a newer version of `go`. To read the
version information from a binary built with `go` 1.18, use the `go`
`version` command and the `debug/buildinfo` package from `go` 1.18+.

#### `go` `mod` `download`

If the main module's `go.mod` file specifies [`go`
`1.17`](/ref/mod#go-mod-file-go) or higher, `go` `mod` `download`
without arguments now downloads source code for only the modules
explicitly [required](/ref/mod#go-mod-file-require) in the main module's
`go.mod` file. (In a `go` `1.17` or higher module, that set already
includes all dependencies needed to build the packages and tests in the
main module.) To also download source code for transitive dependencies,
use `go` `mod` `download` `all`.

#### `go` `mod` `vendor`

The `go` `mod` `vendor` subcommand now supports a `-o` flag to set the
output directory. (Other `go` commands still read from the `vendor`
directory at the module root when loading packages with `-mod=vendor`,
so the main use for this flag is for third-party tools that need to
collect package source code.)

#### `go` `mod` `tidy`

The `go` `mod` `tidy` command now retains additional checksums in the
`go.sum` file for modules whose source code is needed to verify that
each imported package is provided by only one module in the [build
list](/ref/mod#glos-build-list). Because this condition is rare and
failure to apply it results in a build error, this change is *not*
conditioned on the `go` version in the main module's `go.mod` file.

#### `go` `work`

The `go` command now supports a "Workspace" mode. If a `go.work` file is
found in the working directory or a parent directory, or one is
specified using the `GOWORK` environment variable, it will put the `go`
command into workspace mode. In workspace mode, the `go.work` file will
be used to determine the set of main modules used as the roots for
module resolution, instead of using the normally-found `go.mod` file to
specify the single main module. For more information see the
[`go work`](/pkg/cmd/go#hdr-Workspace_maintenance) documentation.

#### `go` `build` `-asan` {#go-build-asan}

The `go` `build` command and related commands now support an `-asan`
flag that enables interoperation with C (or C++) code compiled with the
address sanitizer (C compiler option `-fsanitize=address`).

#### `go` `test`

The `go` command now supports additional command line options for the
new [fuzzing support described above](#fuzzing):

- `go test` supports `-fuzz`, `-fuzztime`, and `-fuzzminimizetime`
  options. For documentation on these see
  [`go help testflag`](/pkg/cmd/go#hdr-Testing_flags).
- `go clean` supports a `-fuzzcache` option. For documentation see
  [`go help clean`](/pkg/cmd/go#hdr-Remove_object_files_and_cached_files).

#### `//go:build` lines {#go-build-lines}

Go 1.17 introduced `//go:build` lines as a more readable way to write
build constraints, instead of `//` `+build` lines. As of Go 1.17,
`gofmt` adds `//go:build` lines to match existing `+build` lines and
keeps them in sync, while `go` `vet` diagnoses when they are out of
sync.

Since the release of Go 1.18 marks the end of support for Go 1.16, all
supported versions of Go now understand `//go:build` lines. In Go 1.18,
`go` `fix` now removes the now-obsolete `//` `+build` lines in modules
declaring `go` `1.18` or later in their `go.mod` files.

For more information, see
[go.dev/design/draft-gobuild](/design/draft-gobuild).

### Gofmt

`gofmt` now reads and formats input files concurrently, with a memory
limit proportional to `GOMAXPROCS`. On a machine with multiple CPUs,
`gofmt` should now be significantly faster.

### Vet

#### Updates for Generics {#vet-generics}

The `vet` tool is updated to support generic code. In most cases, it
reports an error in generic code whenever it would report an error in
the equivalent non-generic code after substituting for type parameters
with a type from their [type set](/ref/spec#Interface_types). For
example, `vet` reports a format error in

    func Print[T ~int|~string](t T) {
        fmt.Printf("%d", t)
    }

because it would report a format error in the non-generic equivalent of
`Print[string]`:

    func PrintString(x string) {
        fmt.Printf("%d", x)
    }

#### Precision improvements for existing checkers {#vet-precision}

The `cmd/vet` checkers `copylock`, `printf`, `sortslice`,
`testinggoroutine`, and `tests` have all had moderate precision
improvements to handle additional code patterns. This may lead to newly
reported errors in existing packages. For example, the `printf` checker
now tracks formatting strings created by concatenating string constants.
So `vet` will report an error in:

      // fmt.Printf formatting directive %d is being passed to Println.
      fmt.Println("%d"+` ≡ x (mod 2)`+"\n", x%2)

## Runtime

The garbage collector now includes non-heap sources of garbage collector
work (e.g., stack scanning) when determining how frequently to run. As a
result, garbage collector overhead is more predictable when these
sources are significant. For most applications these changes will be
negligible; however, some Go applications may now use less memory and
spend more time on garbage collection, or vice versa, than before. The
intended workaround is to tweak `GOGC` where necessary.

The runtime now returns memory to the operating system more efficiently
and has been tuned to work more aggressively as a result.

Go 1.17 generally improved the formatting of arguments in stack traces,
but could print inaccurate values for arguments passed in registers.
This is improved in Go 1.18 by printing a question mark (`?`) after each
value that may be inaccurate.

The built-in function `append` now uses a slightly different formula
when deciding how much to grow a slice when it must allocate a new
underlying array. The new formula is less prone to sudden transitions in
allocation behavior.

## Compiler

Go 1.17 [implemented](go1.17#compiler) a new way of passing function
arguments and results using registers instead of the stack on 64-bit x86
architecture on selected operating systems. Go 1.18 expands the
supported platforms to include 64-bit ARM (`GOARCH=arm64`), big- and
little-endian 64-bit PowerPC (`GOARCH=ppc64`, `ppc64le`), as well as
64-bit x86 architecture (`GOARCH=amd64`) on all operating systems. On
64-bit ARM and 64-bit PowerPC systems, benchmarking shows typical
performance improvements of 10% or more.

As [mentioned](go1.17#compiler) in the Go 1.17 release notes, this
change does not affect the functionality of any safe Go code and is
designed to have no impact on most assembly code. See the [Go 1.17
release notes](go1.17#compiler) for more details.

The compiler now can inline functions that contain range loops or
labeled for loops.

The new `-asan` compiler option supports the new `go` command `-asan`
option.

Because the compiler's type checker was replaced in its entirety to
support generics, some error messages now may use different wording than
before. In some cases, pre-Go 1.18 error messages provided more detail
or were phrased in a more helpful way. We intend to address these cases
in Go 1.19.

Because of changes in the compiler related to supporting generics, the
Go 1.18 compile speed can be roughly 15% slower than the Go 1.17 compile
speed. The execution time of the compiled code is not affected. We
intend to improve the speed of the compiler in future releases.

## Linker

The linker emits [far fewer
relocations](https://tailscale.com/blog/go-linker/){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"}. As a result, most codebases will link faster, require
less memory to link, and generate smaller binaries. Tools that process
Go binaries should use Go 1.18's `debug/gosym` package to transparently
handle both old and new binaries.

The new `-asan` linker option supports the new `go` command `-asan`
option.

## Bootstrap

When building a Go release from source and `GOROOT_BOOTSTRAP` is not
set, previous versions of Go looked for a Go 1.4 or later bootstrap
toolchain in the directory `$HOME/go1.4` (`%HOMEDRIVE%%HOMEPATH%\go1.4`
on Windows). Go now looks first for `$HOME/go1.17` or `$HOME/sdk/go1.17`
before falling back to `$HOME/go1.4`. We intend for Go 1.19 to require
Go 1.17 or later for bootstrap, and this change should make the
transition smoother. For more details, see
[go.dev/issue/44505](/issue/44505).

## Standard library {#library}

### New `debug/buildinfo` package {#debug_buildinfo}

The new [`debug/buildinfo`](/pkg/debug/buildinfo) package provides
access to module versions, version control information, and build flags
embedded in executable files built by the `go` command. The same
information is also available via
[`runtime/debug.ReadBuildInfo`](/pkg/runtime/debug#ReadBuildInfo) for
the currently running binary and via `go` `version` `-m` on the command
line.

### New `net/netip` package {#netip}

The new [`net/netip`](/pkg/net/netip/) package defines a new IP address
type, [`Addr`](/pkg/net/netip/#Addr). Compared to the existing
[`net.IP`](/pkg/net/#IP) type, the `netip.Addr` type takes less memory,
is immutable, and is comparable so it supports `==` and can be used as a
map key.

In addition to `Addr`, the package defines
[`AddrPort`](/pkg/net/netip/#AddrPort), representing an IP and port, and
[`Prefix`](/pkg/net/netip/#Prefix), representing a network CIDR prefix.

The package also defines several functions to create and examine these
new types: [`AddrFrom4`](/pkg/net/netip#AddrFrom4),
[`AddrFrom16`](/pkg/net/netip#AddrFrom16),
[`AddrFromSlice`](/pkg/net/netip#AddrFromSlice),
[`AddrPortFrom`](/pkg/net/netip#AddrPortFrom),
[`IPv4Unspecified`](/pkg/net/netip#IPv4Unspecified),
[`IPv6LinkLocalAllNodes`](/pkg/net/netip#IPv6LinkLocalAllNodes),
[`IPv6Unspecified`](/pkg/net/netip#IPv6Unspecified),
[`MustParseAddr`](/pkg/net/netip#MustParseAddr),
[`MustParseAddrPort`](/pkg/net/netip#MustParseAddrPort),
[`MustParsePrefix`](/pkg/net/netip#MustParsePrefix),
[`ParseAddr`](/pkg/net/netip#ParseAddr),
[`ParseAddrPort`](/pkg/net/netip#ParseAddrPort),
[`ParsePrefix`](/pkg/net/netip#ParsePrefix),
[`PrefixFrom`](/pkg/net/netip#PrefixFrom).

The [`net`](/pkg/net/) package includes new methods that parallel
existing methods, but return `netip.AddrPort` instead of the
heavier-weight [`net.IP`](/pkg/net/#IP) or
[`*net.UDPAddr`](/pkg/net/#UDPAddr) types:
[`Resolver.LookupNetIP`](/pkg/net/#Resolver.LookupNetIP),
[`UDPConn.ReadFromUDPAddrPort`](/pkg/net/#UDPConn.ReadFromUDPAddrPort),
[`UDPConn.ReadMsgUDPAddrPort`](/pkg/net/#UDPConn.ReadMsgUDPAddrPort),
[`UDPConn.WriteToUDPAddrPort`](/pkg/net/#UDPConn.WriteToUDPAddrPort),
[`UDPConn.WriteMsgUDPAddrPort`](/pkg/net/#UDPConn.WriteMsgUDPAddrPort).
The new `UDPConn` methods support allocation-free I/O.

The `net` package also now includes functions and methods to convert
between the existing
[`TCPAddr`](/pkg/net/#TCPAddr)/[`UDPAddr`](/pkg/net/#UDPAddr) types and
`netip.AddrPort`:
[`TCPAddrFromAddrPort`](/pkg/net/#TCPAddrFromAddrPort),
[`UDPAddrFromAddrPort`](/pkg/net/#UDPAddrFromAddrPort),
[`TCPAddr.AddrPort`](/pkg/net/#TCPAddr.AddrPort),
[`UDPAddr.AddrPort`](/pkg/net/#UDPAddr.AddrPort).

### TLS 1.0 and 1.1 disabled by default client-side {#tls10}

If [`Config.MinVersion`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#Config.MinVersion) is not set,
it now defaults to TLS 1.2 for client connections. Any safely up-to-date
server is expected to support TLS 1.2, and browsers have required it
since 2020. TLS 1.0 and 1.1 are still supported by setting
`Config.MinVersion` to `VersionTLS10`. The server-side default is
unchanged at TLS 1.0.

The default can be temporarily reverted to TLS 1.0 by setting the
`GODEBUG=tls10default=1` environment variable. This option will be
removed in Go 1.19.

### Rejecting SHA-1 certificates {#sha1}

`crypto/x509` will now reject certificates signed with the SHA-1 hash
function. This doesn't apply to self-signed root certificates. Practical
attacks against SHA-1 [have been demonstrated since
2017](https://shattered.io/){rel="noreferrer" target="_blank"} and
publicly trusted Certificate Authorities have not issued SHA-1
certificates since 2015.

This can be temporarily reverted by setting the `GODEBUG=x509sha1=1`
environment variable. This option will be removed in a future release.

### Minor changes to the library {#minor_library_changes}

As always, there are various minor changes and updates to the library,
made with the Go 1 [promise of compatibility](/doc/go1compat) in mind.

#### [bufio](/pkg/bufio/) {#bufiopkgbufio}

The new [`Writer.AvailableBuffer`](/pkg/bufio#Writer.AvailableBuffer)
method returns an empty buffer with a possibly non-empty capacity for
use with append-like APIs. After appending, the buffer can be provided
to a succeeding `Write` call and possibly avoid any copying.

The [`Reader.Reset`](/pkg/bufio#Reader.Reset) and
[`Writer.Reset`](/pkg/bufio#Writer.Reset) methods now use the default
buffer size when called on objects with a `nil` buffer.

#### [bytes](/pkg/bytes/) {#bytespkgbytes}

The new [`Cut`](/pkg/bytes/#Cut) function slices a `[]byte` around a
separator. It can replace and simplify many common uses of
[`Index`](/pkg/bytes/#Index), [`IndexByte`](/pkg/bytes/#IndexByte),
[`IndexRune`](/pkg/bytes/#IndexRune), and
[`SplitN`](/pkg/bytes/#SplitN).

[`Trim`](/pkg/bytes/#Trim), [`TrimLeft`](/pkg/bytes/#TrimLeft), and
[`TrimRight`](/pkg/bytes/#TrimRight) are now allocation free and,
especially for small ASCII cutsets, up to 10 times faster.

The [`Title`](/pkg/bytes/#Title) function is now deprecated. It doesn't
handle Unicode punctuation and language-specific capitalization rules,
and is superseded by the
[golang.org/x/text/cases](https://golang.org/x/text/cases){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"} package.

#### [crypto/elliptic](/pkg/crypto/elliptic/) {#cryptoellipticpkgcryptoelliptic}

The [`P224`](/pkg/crypto/elliptic#P224),
[`P384`](/pkg/crypto/elliptic#P384), and
[`P521`](/pkg/crypto/elliptic#P521) curve implementations are now all
backed by code generated by the
[addchain](https://github.com/mmcloughlin/addchain){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"} and
[fiat-crypto](https://github.com/mit-plv/fiat-crypto){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"} projects, the latter of which is based on a
formally-verified model of the arithmetic operations. They now use safer
complete formulas and internal APIs. P-224 and P-384 are now
approximately four times faster. All specific curve implementations are
now constant-time.

Operating on invalid curve points (those for which the `IsOnCurve`
method returns false, and which are never returned by
[`Unmarshal`](/pkg/crypto/elliptic#Unmarshal) or a `Curve` method
operating on a valid point) has always been undefined behavior, can lead
to key recovery attacks, and is now unsupported by the new backend. If
an invalid point is supplied to a `P224`, `P384`, or `P521` method, that
method will now return a random point. The behavior might change to an
explicit panic in a future release.

#### [crypto/tls](/pkg/crypto/tls/) {#cryptotlspkgcryptotls}

The new [`Conn.NetConn`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#Conn.NetConn) method allows
access to the underlying [`net.Conn`](/pkg/net#Conn).

#### [crypto/x509](/pkg/crypto/x509) {#cryptox509pkgcryptox509}

[`Certificate.Verify`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#Certificate.Verify) now uses
platform APIs to verify certificate validity on macOS and iOS when it is
called with a nil
[`VerifyOpts.Roots`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#VerifyOpts.Roots) or when using
the root pool returned from
[`SystemCertPool`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#SystemCertPool).

[`SystemCertPool`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#SystemCertPool) is now available on
Windows.

On Windows, macOS, and iOS, when a
[`CertPool`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#CertPool) returned by
[`SystemCertPool`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#SystemCertPool) has additional
certificates added to it,
[`Certificate.Verify`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#Certificate.Verify) will do two
verifications: one using the platform verifier APIs and the system
roots, and one using the Go verifier and the additional roots. Chains
returned by the platform verifier APIs will be prioritized.

[`CertPool.Subjects`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#CertPool.Subjects) is
deprecated. On Windows, macOS, and iOS the
[`CertPool`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#CertPool) returned by
[`SystemCertPool`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#SystemCertPool) will return a pool
which does not include system roots in the slice returned by `Subjects`,
as a static list can't appropriately represent the platform policies and
might not be available at all from the platform APIs.

Support for signing certificates using signature algorithms that depend
on the MD5 hash (`MD5WithRSA`) may be removed in Go 1.19.

#### [debug/dwarf](/pkg/debug/dwarf/) {#debugdwarfpkgdebugdwarf}

The [`StructField`](/pkg/debug/dwarf#StructField) and
[`BasicType`](/pkg/debug/dwarf#BasicType) structs both now have a
`DataBitOffset` field, which holds the value of the
`DW_AT_data_bit_offset` attribute if present.

#### [debug/elf](/pkg/debug/elf/) {#debugelfpkgdebugelf}

The [`R_PPC64_RELATIVE`](/pkg/debug/elf/#R_PPC64_RELATIVE) constant has
been added.

#### [debug/plan9obj](/pkg/debug/plan9obj/) {#debugplan9objpkgdebugplan9obj}

The [File.Symbols](/pkg/debug/plan9obj#File.Symbols) method now returns
the new exported error value
[ErrNoSymbols](/pkg/debug/plan9obj#ErrNoSymbols) if the file has no
symbol section.

#### [embed](/pkg/embed/) {#embedpkgembed}

A [`go:embed`](/pkg/embed#hdr-Directives) directive may now start with
`all:` to include files whose names start with dot or underscore.

#### [go/ast](/pkg/go/ast/) {#goastpkggoast}

Per the proposal [Additions to go/ast and go/token to support
parameterized functions and
types](https://go.googlesource.com/proposal/+/master/design/47781-parameterized-go-ast.md){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"} the following additions are made to the
[`go/ast`](/pkg/go/ast) package:

- the [`FuncType`](/pkg/go/ast/#FuncType) and
  [`TypeSpec`](/pkg/go/ast/#TypeSpec) nodes have a new field
  `TypeParams` to hold type parameters, if any.
- The new expression node [`IndexListExpr`](/pkg/go/ast/#IndexListExpr)
  represents index expressions with multiple indices, used for function
  and type instantiations with more than one explicit type argument.

#### [go/constant](/pkg/go/constant/) {#goconstantpkggoconstant}

The new [`Kind.String`](/pkg/go/constant/#Kind.String) method returns a
human-readable name for the receiver kind.

#### [go/token](/pkg/go/token/) {#gotokenpkggotoken}

The new constant [`TILDE`](/pkg/go/token/#TILDE) represents the `~`
token per the proposal [Additions to go/ast and go/token to support
parameterized functions and
types](https://go.googlesource.com/proposal/+/master/design/47781-parameterized-go-ast.md){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"} .

#### [go/types](/pkg/go/types/) {#gotypespkggotypes}

The new [`Config.GoVersion`](/pkg/go/types/#Config.GoVersion) field sets
the accepted Go language version.

Per the proposal [Additions to go/types to support type
parameters](https://go.googlesource.com/proposal/+/master/design/47916-parameterized-go-types.md){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"} the following additions are made to the
[`go/types`](/pkg/go/types) package:

- The new type [`TypeParam`](/pkg/go/types/#TypeParam), factory function
  [`NewTypeParam`](/pkg/go/types/#NewTypeParam), and associated methods
  are added to represent a type parameter.
- The new type [`TypeParamList`](/pkg/go/types/#TypeParamList) holds a
  list of type parameters.
- The new type [`TypeList`](/pkg/go/types/#TypeList) holds a list of
  types.
- The new factory function
  [`NewSignatureType`](/pkg/go/types/#NewSignatureType) allocates a
  [`Signature`](/pkg/go/types/#Signature) with (receiver or function)
  type parameters. To access those type parameters, the `Signature` type
  has two new methods
  [`Signature.RecvTypeParams`](/pkg/go/types/#Signature.RecvTypeParams)
  and [`Signature.TypeParams`](/pkg/go/types/#Signature.TypeParams).
- [`Named`](/pkg/go/types/#Named) types have four new methods:
  [`Named.Origin`](/pkg/go/types/#Named.Origin) to get the original
  parameterized types of instantiated types,
  [`Named.TypeArgs`](/pkg/go/types/#Named.TypeArgs) and
  [`Named.TypeParams`](/pkg/go/types/#Named.TypeParams) to get the type
  arguments or type parameters of an instantiated or parameterized type,
  and [`Named.SetTypeParams`](/pkg/go/types/#Named.TypeParams) to set
  the type parameters (for instance, when importing a named type where
  allocation of the named type and setting of type parameters cannot be
  done simultaneously due to possible cycles).
- The [`Interface`](/pkg/go/types/#Interface) type has four new methods:
  [`Interface.IsComparable`](/pkg/go/types/#Interface.IsComparable) and
  [`Interface.IsMethodSet`](/pkg/go/types/#Interface.IsMethodSet) to
  query properties of the type set defined by the interface, and
  [`Interface.MarkImplicit`](/pkg/go/types/#Interface.MarkImplicit) and
  [`Interface.IsImplicit`](/pkg/go/types/#Interface.IsImplicit) to set
  and test whether the interface is an implicit interface around a type
  constraint literal.
- The new types [`Union`](/pkg/go/types/#Union) and
  [`Term`](/pkg/go/types/#Term), factory functions
  [`NewUnion`](/pkg/go/types/#NewUnion) and
  [`NewTerm`](/pkg/go/types/#NewTerm), and associated methods are added
  to represent type sets in interfaces.
- The new function [`Instantiate`](/pkg/go/types/#Instantiate)
  instantiates a parameterized type.
- The new [`Info.Instances`](/pkg/go/types/#Info.Instances) map records
  function and type instantiations through the new
  [`Instance`](/pkg/go/types/#Instance) type.
- The new type [`ArgumentError`](/pkg/go/types/#ArgumentError) and
  associated methods are added to represent an error related to a type
  argument.
- The new type [`Context`](/pkg/go/types/#Context) and factory function
  [`NewContext`](/pkg/go/types/#NewContext) are added to facilitate
  sharing of identical type instances across type-checked packages, via
  the new [`Config.Context`](/pkg/go/types/#Config.Context) field.

The predicates [`AssignableTo`](/pkg/go/types/#AssignableTo),
[`ConvertibleTo`](/pkg/go/types/#ConvertibleTo),
[`Implements`](/pkg/go/types/#Implements),
[`Identical`](/pkg/go/types/#Identical),
[`IdenticalIgnoreTags`](/pkg/go/types/#IdenticalIgnoreTags), and
[`AssertableTo`](/pkg/go/types/#AssertableTo) now also work with
arguments that are or contain generalized interfaces, i.e. interfaces
that may only be used as type constraints in Go code. Note that the
behavior of `AssignableTo`, `ConvertibleTo`, `Implements`, and
`AssertableTo` is undefined with arguments that are uninstantiated
generic types, and `AssertableTo` is undefined if the first argument is
a generalized interface.

#### [html/template](/pkg/html/template/) {#htmltemplatepkghtmltemplate}

Within a `range` pipeline the new `{{break}}` command will end the loop
early and the new `{{continue}}` command will immediately start the next
loop iteration.

The `and` function no longer always evaluates all arguments; it stops
evaluating arguments after the first argument that evaluates to false.
Similarly, the `or` function now stops evaluating arguments after the
first argument that evaluates to true. This makes a difference if any of
the arguments is a function call.

#### [image/draw](/pkg/image/draw/) {#imagedrawpkgimagedraw}

The `Draw` and `DrawMask` fallback implementations (used when the
arguments are not the most common image types) are now faster when those
arguments implement the optional
[`draw.RGBA64Image`](/pkg/image/draw/#RGBA64Image) and
[`image.RGBA64Image`](/pkg/image/#RGBA64Image) interfaces that were
added in Go 1.17.

#### [net](/pkg/net/) {#netpkgnet}

[`net.Error.Temporary`](/pkg/net#Error) has been deprecated.

#### [net/http](/pkg/net/http/) {#nethttppkgnethttp}

On WebAssembly targets, the `Dial`, `DialContext`, `DialTLS` and
`DialTLSContext` method fields in
[`Transport`](/pkg/net/http/#Transport) will now be correctly used, if
specified, for making HTTP requests.

The new [`Cookie.Valid`](/pkg/net/http#Cookie.Valid) method reports
whether the cookie is valid.

The new [`MaxBytesHandler`](/pkg/net/http#MaxBytesHandler) function
creates a `Handler` that wraps its `ResponseWriter` and `Request.Body`
with a [`MaxBytesReader`](/pkg/net/http#MaxBytesReader).

When looking up a domain name containing non-ASCII characters, the
Unicode-to-ASCII conversion is now done in accordance with
Nontransitional Processing as defined in the [Unicode IDNA Compatibility
Processing](https://unicode.org/reports/tr46/){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"} standard (UTS #46). The interpretation of four distinct
runes are changed: ß, ς, zero-width joiner U+200D, and zero-width
non-joiner U+200C. Nontransitional Processing is consistent with most
applications and web browsers.

#### [os/user](/pkg/os/user/) {#osuserpkgosuser}

[`User.GroupIds`](/pkg/os/user#User.GroupIds) now uses a Go native
implementation when cgo is not available.

#### [reflect](/pkg/reflect/) {#reflectpkgreflect}

The new [`Value.SetIterKey`](/pkg/reflect/#Value.SetIterKey) and
[`Value.SetIterValue`](/pkg/reflect/#Value.SetIterValue) methods set a
Value using a map iterator as the source. They are equivalent to
`Value.Set(iter.Key())` and `Value.Set(iter.Value())`, but do fewer
allocations.

The new [`Value.UnsafePointer`](/pkg/reflect/#Value.UnsafePointer)
method returns the Value's value as an
[`unsafe.Pointer`](/pkg/unsafe/#Pointer). This allows callers to migrate
from [`Value.UnsafeAddr`](/pkg/reflect/#Value.UnsafeAddr) and
[`Value.Pointer`](/pkg/reflect/#Value.Pointer) to eliminate the need to
perform uintptr to unsafe.Pointer conversions at the callsite (as
unsafe.Pointer rules require).

The new [`MapIter.Reset`](/pkg/reflect/#MapIter.Reset) method changes
its receiver to iterate over a different map. The use of
[`MapIter.Reset`](/pkg/reflect/#MapIter.Reset) allows allocation-free
iteration over many maps.

A number of methods ( [`Value.CanInt`](/pkg/reflect#Value.CanInt),
[`Value.CanUint`](/pkg/reflect#Value.CanUint),
[`Value.CanFloat`](/pkg/reflect#Value.CanFloat),
[`Value.CanComplex`](/pkg/reflect#Value.CanComplex) ) have been added to
[`Value`](/pkg/reflect#Value) to test if a conversion is safe.

[`Value.FieldByIndexErr`](/pkg/reflect#Value.FieldByIndexErr) has been
added to avoid the panic that occurs in
[`Value.FieldByIndex`](/pkg/reflect#Value.FieldByIndex) when stepping
through a nil pointer to an embedded struct.

[`reflect.Ptr`](/pkg/reflect#Ptr) and
[`reflect.PtrTo`](/pkg/reflect#PtrTo) have been renamed to
[`reflect.Pointer`](/pkg/reflect#Pointer) and
[`reflect.PointerTo`](/pkg/reflect#PointerTo), respectively, for
consistency with the rest of the reflect package. The old names will
continue to work, but will be deprecated in a future Go release.

#### [regexp](/pkg/regexp/) {#regexppkgregexp}

[`regexp`](/pkg/regexp/) now treats each invalid byte of a UTF-8 string
as `U+FFFD`.

#### [runtime/debug](/pkg/runtime/debug/) {#runtimedebugpkgruntimedebug}

The [`BuildInfo`](/pkg/runtime/debug#BuildInfo) struct has two new
fields, containing additional information about how the binary was
built:

- [`GoVersion`](/pkg/runtime/debug#BuildInfo.GoVersion) holds the
  version of Go used to build the binary.
- [`Settings`](/pkg/runtime/debug#BuildInfo.Settings) is a slice of
  [`BuildSettings`](/pkg/runtime/debug#BuildSettings) structs holding
  key/value pairs describing the build.

#### [runtime/pprof](/pkg/runtime/pprof/) {#runtimepprofpkgruntimepprof}

The CPU profiler now uses per-thread timers on Linux. This increases the
maximum CPU usage that a profile can observe, and reduces some forms of
bias.

#### [strconv](/pkg/strconv/) {#strconvpkgstrconv}

[`strconv.Unquote`](/pkg/strconv/#strconv.Unquote) now rejects Unicode
surrogate halves.

#### [strings](/pkg/strings/) {#stringspkgstrings}

The new [`Cut`](/pkg/strings/#Cut) function slices a `string` around a
separator. It can replace and simplify many common uses of
[`Index`](/pkg/strings/#Index), [`IndexByte`](/pkg/strings/#IndexByte),
[`IndexRune`](/pkg/strings/#IndexRune), and
[`SplitN`](/pkg/strings/#SplitN).

The new [`Clone`](/pkg/strings/#Clone) function copies the input
`string` without the returned cloned `string` referencing the input
string's memory.

[`Trim`](/pkg/strings/#Trim), [`TrimLeft`](/pkg/strings/#TrimLeft), and
[`TrimRight`](/pkg/strings/#TrimRight) are now allocation free and,
especially for small ASCII cutsets, up to 10 times faster.

The [`Title`](/pkg/strings/#Title) function is now deprecated. It
doesn't handle Unicode punctuation and language-specific capitalization
rules, and is superseded by the
[golang.org/x/text/cases](https://golang.org/x/text/cases){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"} package.

#### [sync](/pkg/sync/) {#syncpkgsync}

The new methods [`Mutex.TryLock`](/pkg/sync#Mutex.TryLock),
[`RWMutex.TryLock`](/pkg/sync#RWMutex.TryLock), and
[`RWMutex.TryRLock`](/pkg/sync#RWMutex.TryRLock), will acquire the lock
if it is not currently held.

#### [syscall](/pkg/syscall/) {#syscallpkgsyscall}

The new function [`SyscallN`](/pkg/syscall/?GOOS=windows#SyscallN) has
been introduced for Windows, allowing for calls with arbitrary number of
arguments. As a result, [`Syscall`](/pkg/syscall/?GOOS=windows#Syscall),
[`Syscall6`](/pkg/syscall/?GOOS=windows#Syscall6),
[`Syscall9`](/pkg/syscall/?GOOS=windows#Syscall9),
[`Syscall12`](/pkg/syscall/?GOOS=windows#Syscall12),
[`Syscall15`](/pkg/syscall/?GOOS=windows#Syscall15), and
[`Syscall18`](/pkg/syscall/?GOOS=windows#Syscall18) are deprecated in
favor of [`SyscallN`](/pkg/syscall/?GOOS=windows#SyscallN).

[`SysProcAttr.Pdeathsig`](/pkg/syscall/?GOOS=freebsd#SysProcAttr.Pdeathsig)
is now supported in FreeBSD.

#### [syscall/js](/pkg/syscall/js/) {#syscalljspkgsyscalljs}

The `Wrapper` interface has been removed.

#### [testing](/pkg/testing/) {#testingpkgtesting}

The precedence of `/` in the argument for `-run` and `-bench` has been
increased. `A/B|C/D` used to be treated as `A/(B|C)/D` and is now
treated as `(A/B)|(C/D)`.

If the `-run` option does not select any tests, the `-count` option is
ignored. This could change the behavior of existing tests in the
unlikely case that a test changes the set of subtests that are run each
time the test function itself is run.

The new [`testing.F`](/pkg/testing#F) type is used by the new [fuzzing
support described above](#fuzzing). Tests also now support the command
line options `-test.fuzz`, `-test.fuzztime`, and
`-test.fuzzminimizetime`.

#### [text/template](/pkg/text/template/) {#texttemplatepkgtexttemplate}

Within a `range` pipeline the new `{{break}}` command will end the loop
early and the new `{{continue}}` command will immediately start the next
loop iteration.

The `and` function no longer always evaluates all arguments; it stops
evaluating arguments after the first argument that evaluates to false.
Similarly, the `or` function now stops evaluating arguments after the
first argument that evaluates to true. This makes a difference if any of
the arguments is a function call.

#### [text/template/parse](/pkg/text/template/parse/) {#texttemplateparsepkgtexttemplateparse}

The package supports the new [text/template](/pkg/text/template/) and
[html/template](/pkg/html/template/) `{{break}}` command via the new
constant [`NodeBreak`](/pkg/text/template/parse#NodeBreak) and the new
type [`BreakNode`](/pkg/text/template/parse#BreakNode), and similarly
supports the new `{{continue}}` command via the new constant
[`NodeContinue`](/pkg/text/template/parse#NodeContinue) and the new type
[`ContinueNode`](/pkg/text/template/parse#ContinueNode).

#### [unicode/utf8](/pkg/unicode/utf8/) {#unicodeutf8pkgunicodeutf8}

The new [`AppendRune`](/pkg/unicode/utf8/#AppendRune) function appends
the UTF-8 encoding of a `rune` to a `[]byte`.
:::
:::::
