::::: {#main-content .SiteContent .SiteContent--default role="main"}
# Go 1.4 Release Notes

::: {#nav .TOC}
:::

::: markdown
## Introduction to Go 1.4 {#introduction}

The latest Go release, version 1.4, arrives as scheduled six months
after 1.3.

It contains only one tiny language change, in the form of a
backwards-compatible simple variant of `for`-`range` loop, and a
possibly breaking change to the compiler involving methods on
pointers-to-pointers.

The release focuses primarily on implementation work, improving the
garbage collector and preparing the ground for a fully concurrent
collector to be rolled out in the next few releases. Stacks are now
contiguous, reallocated when necessary rather than linking on new
"segments"; this release therefore eliminates the notorious "hot stack
split" problem. There are some new tools available including support in
the `go` command for build-time source code generation. The release also
adds support for ARM processors on Android and Native Client (NaCl) and
for AMD64 on Plan 9.

As always, Go 1.4 keeps the [promise of
compatibility](/doc/go1compat.html), and almost everything will continue
to compile and run without change when moved to 1.4.

## Changes to the language {#language}

### For-range loops {#forrange}

Up until Go 1.3, `for`-`range` loop had two forms

    for i, v := range x {
        ...
    }

and

    for i := range x {
        ...
    }

If one was not interested in the loop values, only the iteration itself,
it was still necessary to mention a variable (probably the [blank
identifier](/ref/spec#Blank_identifier), as in `for` `_` `=` `range`
`x`), because the form

    for range x {
        ...
    }

was not syntactically permitted.

This situation seemed awkward, so as of Go 1.4 the variable-free form is
now legal. The pattern arises rarely but the code can be cleaner when it
does.

*Updating*: The change is strictly backwards compatible to existing Go
programs, but tools that analyze Go parse trees may need to be modified
to accept this new form as the `Key` field of
[`RangeStmt`](/pkg/go/ast/#RangeStmt) may now be `nil`.

### Method calls on \*\*T {#methodonpointertopointer}

Given these declarations,

    type T int
    func (T) M() {}
    var x **T

both `gc` and `gccgo` accepted the method call

    x.M()

which is a double dereference of the pointer-to-pointer `x`. The Go
specification allows a single dereference to be inserted automatically,
but not two, so this call is erroneous according to the language
definition. It has therefore been disallowed in Go 1.4, which is a
breaking change, although very few programs will be affected.

*Updating*: Code that depends on the old, erroneous behavior will no
longer compile but is easy to fix by adding an explicit dereference.

## Changes to the supported operating systems and architectures {#os}

### Android

Go 1.4 can build binaries for ARM processors running the Android
operating system. It can also build a `.so` library that can be loaded
by an Android application using the supporting packages in the
[mobile](https://golang.org/x/mobile){rel="noreferrer" target="_blank"}
subrepository. A brief description of the plans for this experimental
port are available [here](/s/go14android).

### NaCl on ARM {#naclarm}

The previous release introduced Native Client (NaCl) support for the
32-bit x86 (`GOARCH=386`) and 64-bit x86 using 32-bit pointers
(GOARCH=amd64p32). The 1.4 release adds NaCl support for ARM
(GOARCH=arm).

### Plan9 on AMD64 {#plan9amd64}

This release adds support for the Plan 9 operating system on AMD64
processors, provided the kernel supports the `nsec` system call and uses
4K pages.

## Changes to the compatibility guidelines {#compatibility}

The [`unsafe`](/pkg/unsafe/) package allows one to defeat Go's type
system by exploiting internal details of the implementation or machine
representation of data. It was never explicitly specified what use of
`unsafe` meant with respect to compatibility as specified in the [Go
compatibility guidelines](go1compat.html). The answer, of course, is
that we can make no promise of compatibility for code that does unsafe
things.

We have clarified this situation in the documentation included in the
release. The [Go compatibility guidelines](go1compat.html) and the docs
for the [`unsafe`](/pkg/unsafe/) package are now explicit that unsafe
code is not guaranteed to remain compatible.

*Updating*: Nothing technical has changed; this is just a clarification
of the documentation.

## Changes to the implementations and tools {#impl}

### Changes to the runtime {#runtime}

Prior to Go 1.4, the runtime (garbage collector, concurrency support,
interface management, maps, slices, strings, ...) was mostly written in
C, with some assembler support. In 1.4, much of the code has been
translated to Go so that the garbage collector can scan the stacks of
programs in the runtime and get accurate information about what
variables are active. This change was large but should have no semantic
effect on programs.

This rewrite allows the garbage collector in 1.4 to be fully precise,
meaning that it is aware of the location of all active pointers in the
program. This means the heap will be smaller as there will be no false
positives keeping non-pointers alive. Other related changes also reduce
the heap size, which is smaller by 10%-30% overall relative to the
previous release.

A consequence is that stacks are no longer segmented, eliminating the
"hot split" problem. When a stack limit is reached, a new, larger stack
is allocated, all active frames for the goroutine are copied there, and
any pointers into the stack are updated. Performance can be noticeably
better in some cases and is always more predictable. Details are
available in [the design document](/s/contigstacks).

The use of contiguous stacks means that stacks can start smaller without
triggering performance issues, so the default starting size for a
goroutine's stack in 1.4 has been reduced from 8192 bytes to 2048 bytes.

As preparation for the concurrent garbage collector scheduled for the
1.5 release, writes to pointer values in the heap are now done by a
function call, called a write barrier, rather than directly from the
function updating the value. In this next release, this will permit the
garbage collector to mediate writes to the heap while it is running.
This change has no semantic effect on programs in 1.4, but was included
in the release to test the compiler and the resulting performance.

The implementation of interface values has been modified. In earlier
releases, the interface contained a word that was either a pointer or a
one-word scalar value, depending on the type of the concrete object
stored. This implementation was problematical for the garbage collector,
so as of 1.4 interface values always hold a pointer. In running
programs, most interface values were pointers anyway, so the effect is
minimal, but programs that store integers (for example) in interfaces
will see more allocations.

As of Go 1.3, the runtime crashes if it finds a memory word that should
contain a valid pointer but instead contains an obviously invalid
pointer (for example, the value 3). Programs that store integers in
pointer values may run afoul of this check and crash. In Go 1.4, setting
the [`GODEBUG`](/pkg/runtime/) variable `invalidptr=0` disables the
crash as a workaround, but we cannot guarantee that future releases will
be able to avoid the crash; the correct fix is to rewrite code not to
alias integers and pointers.

### Assembly {#asm}

The language accepted by the assemblers `cmd/5a`, `cmd/6a` and `cmd/8a`
has had several changes, mostly to make it easier to deliver type
information to the runtime.

First, the `textflag.h` file that defines flags for `TEXT` directives
has been copied from the linker source directory to a standard location
so it can be included with the simple directive

    #include "textflag.h"

The more important changes are in how assembler source can define the
necessary type information. For most programs it will suffice to move
data definitions (`DATA` and `GLOBL` directives) out of assembly into Go
files and to write a Go declaration for each assembly function. The
[assembly document](/doc/asm#runtime) describes what to do.

*Updating*: Assembly files that include `textflag.h` from its old
location will still work, but should be updated. For the type
information, most assembly routines will need no change, but all should
be examined. Assembly source files that define data, functions with
non-empty stack frames, or functions that return pointers need
particular attention. A description of the necessary (but simple)
changes is in the [assembly document](/doc/asm#runtime).

More information about these changes is in the [assembly
document](/doc/asm).

### Status of gccgo {#gccgo}

The release schedules for the GCC and Go projects do not coincide. GCC
release 4.9 contains the Go 1.2 version of gccgo. The next release, GCC
5, will likely have the Go 1.4 version of gccgo.

### Internal packages {#internalpackages}

Go's package system makes it easy to structure programs into components
with clean boundaries, but there are only two forms of access: local
(unexported) and global (exported). Sometimes one wishes to have
components that are not exported, for instance to avoid acquiring
clients of interfaces to code that is part of a public repository but
not intended for use outside the program to which it belongs.

The Go language does not have the power to enforce this distinction, but
as of Go 1.4 the [`go`](/cmd/go/) command introduces a mechanism to
define "internal" packages that may not be imported by packages outside
the source subtree in which they reside.

To create such a package, place it in a directory named `internal` or in
a subdirectory of a directory named internal. When the `go` command sees
an import of a package with `internal` in its path, it verifies that the
package doing the import is within the tree rooted at the parent of the
`internal` directory. For example, a package `.../a/b/c/internal/d/e/f`
can be imported only by code in the directory tree rooted at
`.../a/b/c`. It cannot be imported by code in `.../a/b/g` or in any
other repository.

For Go 1.4, the internal package mechanism is enforced for the main Go
repository; from 1.5 and onward it will be enforced for any repository.

Full details of the mechanism are in [the design
document](/s/go14internal).

### Canonical import paths {#canonicalimports}

Code often lives in repositories hosted by public services such as
`github.com`, meaning that the import paths for packages begin with the
name of the hosting service, `github.com/rsc/pdf` for example. One can
use [an existing mechanism](/cmd/go/#hdr-Remote_import_paths) to provide
a "custom" or "vanity" import path such as `rsc.io/pdf`, but that
creates two valid import paths for the package. That is a problem: one
may inadvertently import the package through the two distinct paths in a
single program, which is wasteful; miss an update to a package because
the path being used is not recognized to be out of date; or break
clients using the old path by moving the package to a different hosting
service.

Go 1.4 introduces an annotation for package clauses in Go source that
identify a canonical import path for the package. If an import is
attempted using a path that is not canonical, the [`go`](/cmd/go/)
command will refuse to compile the importing package.

The syntax is simple: put an identifying comment on the package line.
For our example, the package clause would read:

    package pdf // import "rsc.io/pdf"

With this in place, the `go` command will refuse to compile a package
that imports `github.com/rsc/pdf`, ensuring that the code can be moved
without breaking users.

The check is at build time, not download time, so if `go` `get` fails
because of this check, the mis-imported package has been copied to the
local machine and should be removed manually.

To complement this new feature, a check has been added at update time to
verify that the local package's remote repository matches that of its
custom import. The `go` `get` `-u` command will fail to update a package
if its remote repository has changed since it was first downloaded. The
new `-f` flag overrides this check.

Further information is in [the design document](/s/go14customimport).

### Import paths for the subrepositories {#subrepo}

The Go project subrepositories (`code.google.com/p/go.tools` and so on)
are now available under custom import paths replacing
`code.google.com/p/go.` with `golang.org/x/`, as in
`golang.org/x/tools`. We will add canonical import comments to the code
around June 1, 2015, at which point Go 1.4 and later will stop accepting
the old `code.google.com` paths.

*Updating*: All code that imports from subrepositories should change to
use the new `golang.org` paths. Go 1.0 and later can resolve and import
the new paths, so updating will not break compatibility with older
releases. Code that has not updated will stop compiling with Go 1.4
around June 1, 2015.

### The go generate subcommand {#gogenerate}

The [`go`](/cmd/go/) command has a new subcommand,
[`go generate`](/cmd/go/#hdr-Generate_Go_files_by_processing_source), to
automate the running of tools to generate source code before
compilation. For example, it can be used to run the [`yacc`](/cmd/yacc)
compiler-compiler on a `.y` file to produce the Go source file
implementing the grammar, or to automate the generation of `String`
methods for typed constants using the new
[stringer](https://godoc.org/golang.org/x/tools/cmd/stringer){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"} tool in the `golang.org/x/tools` subrepository.

For more information, see the [design document](/s/go1.4-generate).

### Change to file name handling {#filenames}

Build constraints, also known as build tags, control compilation by
including or excluding files (see the documentation
[`/go/build`](/pkg/go/build/)). Compilation can also be controlled by
the name of the file itself by "tagging" the file with a suffix (before
the `.go` or `.s` extension) with an underscore and the name of the
architecture or operating system. For instance, the file `gopher_arm.go`
will only be compiled if the target processor is an ARM.

Before Go 1.4, a file called just `arm.go` was similarly tagged, but
this behavior can break sources when new architectures are added,
causing files to suddenly become tagged. In 1.4, therefore, a file will
be tagged in this manner only if the tag (architecture or operating
system name) is preceded by an underscore.

*Updating*: Packages that depend on the old behavior will no longer
compile correctly. Files with names like `windows.go` or `amd64.go`
should either have explicit build tags added to the source or be renamed
to something like `os_windows.go` or `support_amd64.go`.

### Other changes to the go command {#gocmd}

There were a number of minor changes to the [`cmd/go`](/cmd/go/) command
worth noting.

- Unless [`cgo`](/cmd/cgo/) is being used to build the package, the `go`
  command now refuses to compile C source files, since the relevant C
  compilers ([`6c`](/cmd/6c/) etc.) are intended to be removed from the
  installation in some future release. (They are used today only to
  build part of the runtime.) It is difficult to use them correctly in
  any case, so any extant uses are likely incorrect, so we have disabled
  them.
- The [`go` `test`](/cmd/go/#hdr-Test_packages) subcommand has a new
  flag, `-o`, to set the name of the resulting binary, corresponding to
  the same flag in other subcommands. The non-functional `-file` flag
  has been removed.
- The [`go` `test`](/cmd/go/#hdr-Test_packages) subcommand will compile
  and link all `*_test.go` files in the package, even when there are no
  `Test` functions in them. It previously ignored such files.
- The behavior of the [`go` `build`](/cmd/go/#hdr-Test_packages)
  subcommand's `-a` flag has been changed for non-development
  installations. For installations running a released distribution, the
  `-a` flag will no longer rebuild the standard library and commands, to
  avoid overwriting the installation's files.

### Changes to package source layout {#pkg}

In the main Go source repository, the source code for the packages was
kept in the directory `src/pkg`, which made sense but differed from
other repositories, including the Go subrepositories. In Go 1.4,
the` pkg` level of the source tree is now gone, so for example the
[`fmt`](/pkg/fmt/) package's source, once kept in directory
`src/pkg/fmt`, now lives one level higher in `src/fmt`.

*Updating*: Tools like `godoc` that discover source code need to know
about the new location. All tools and services maintained by the Go team
have been updated.

### SWIG

Due to runtime changes in this release, Go 1.4 requires SWIG 3.0.3.

### Miscellany {#misc}

The standard repository's top-level `misc` directory used to contain Go
support for editors and IDEs: plugins, initialization scripts and so on.
Maintaining these was becoming time-consuming and needed external help
because many of the editors listed were not used by members of the core
team. It also required us to make decisions about which plugin was best
for a given editor, even for editors we do not use.

The Go community at large is much better suited to managing this
information. In Go 1.4, therefore, this support has been removed from
the repository. Instead, there is a curated, informative list of what's
available on a [wiki page](/wiki/IDEsAndTextEditorPlugins).

## Performance

Most programs will run about the same speed or slightly faster in 1.4
than in 1.3; some will be slightly slower. There are many changes,
making it hard to be precise about what to expect.

As mentioned above, much of the runtime was translated to Go from C,
which led to some reduction in heap sizes. It also improved performance
slightly because the Go compiler is better at optimization, due to
things like inlining, than the C compiler used to build the runtime.

The garbage collector was sped up, leading to measurable improvements
for garbage-heavy programs. On the other hand, the new write barriers
slow things down again, typically by about the same amount but,
depending on their behavior, some programs may be somewhat slower or
faster.

Library changes that affect performance are documented below.

## Changes to the standard library {#library}

### New packages {#new_packages}

There are no new packages in this release.

### Major changes to the library {#major_library_changes}

#### bufio.Scanner {#scanner}

The [`Scanner`](/pkg/bufio/#Scanner) type in the [`bufio`](/pkg/bufio/)
package has had a bug fixed that may require changes to custom
[`split functions`](/pkg/bufio/#SplitFunc). The bug made it impossible
to generate an empty token at EOF; the fix changes the end conditions
seen by the split function. Previously, scanning stopped at EOF if there
was no more data. As of 1.4, the split function will be called once at
EOF after input is exhausted, so the split function can generate a final
empty token as the documentation already promised.

*Updating*: Custom split functions may need to be modified to handle
empty tokens at EOF as desired.

#### syscall

The [`syscall`](/pkg/syscall/) package is now frozen except for changes
needed to maintain the core repository. In particular, it will no longer
be extended to support new or different system calls that are not used
by the core. The reasons are described at length in [a separate
document](/s/go1.4-syscall).

A new subrepository,
[golang.org/x/sys](https://golang.org/x/sys){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"}, has been created to serve as the location for new
developments to support system calls on all kernels. It has a nicer
structure, with three packages that each hold the implementation of
system calls for one of
[Unix](https://godoc.org/golang.org/x/sys/unix){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"},
[Windows](https://godoc.org/golang.org/x/sys/windows){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"} and [Plan
9](https://godoc.org/golang.org/x/sys/plan9){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"}. These packages will be curated more generously,
accepting all reasonable changes that reflect kernel interfaces in those
operating systems. See the documentation and the article mentioned above
for more information.

*Updating*: Existing programs are not affected as the `syscall` package
is largely unchanged from the 1.3 release. Future development that
requires system calls not in the `syscall` package should build on
`golang.org/x/sys` instead.

### Minor changes to the library {#minor_library_changes}

The following list summarizes a number of minor changes to the library,
mostly additions. See the relevant package documentation for more
information about each change.

- The [`archive/zip`](/pkg/archive/zip/) package's
  [`Writer`](/pkg/archive/zip/#Writer) now supports a
  [`Flush`](/pkg/archive/zip/#Writer.Flush) method.

- The [`compress/flate`](/pkg/compress/flate/),
  [`compress/gzip`](/pkg/compress/gzip/), and
  [`compress/zlib`](/pkg/compress/zlib/) packages now support a `Reset`
  method for the decompressors, allowing them to reuse buffers and
  improve performance. The [`compress/gzip`](/pkg/compress/gzip/)
  package also has a
  [`Multistream`](/pkg/compress/gzip/#Reader.Multistream) method to
  control support for multistream files.

- The [`crypto`](/pkg/crypto/) package now has a
  [`Signer`](/pkg/crypto/#Signer) interface, implemented by the
  `PrivateKey` types in [`crypto/ecdsa`](/pkg/crypto/ecdsa) and
  [`crypto/rsa`](/pkg/crypto/rsa).

- The [`crypto/tls`](/pkg/crypto/tls/) package now supports ALPN as
  defined in [RFC
  7301](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7301){rel="noreferrer"
  target="_blank"}.

- The [`crypto/tls`](/pkg/crypto/tls/) package now supports programmatic
  selection of server certificates through the new
  [`CertificateForName`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#Config.CertificateForName)
  function of the [`Config`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#Config) struct.

- Also in the crypto/tls package, the server now supports
  [TLS_FALLBACK_SCSV](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-tls-downgrade-scsv-00){rel="noreferrer"
  target="_blank"} to help clients detect fallback attacks. (The Go
  client does not support fallback at all, so it is not vulnerable to
  those attacks.)

- The [`database/sql`](/pkg/database/sql/) package can now list all
  registered [`Drivers`](/pkg/database/sql/#Drivers).

- The [`debug/dwarf`](/pkg/debug/dwarf/) package now supports
  [`UnspecifiedType`](/pkg/debug/dwarf/#UnspecifiedType)s.

- In the [`encoding/asn1`](/pkg/encoding/asn1/) package, optional
  elements with a default value will now only be omitted if they have
  that value.

- The [`encoding/csv`](/pkg/encoding/csv/) package no longer quotes
  empty strings but does quote the end-of-data marker `\.` (backslash
  dot). This is permitted by the definition of CSV and allows it to work
  better with Postgres.

- The [`encoding/gob`](/pkg/encoding/gob/) package has been rewritten to
  eliminate the use of unsafe operations, allowing it to be used in
  environments that do not permit use of the [`unsafe`](/pkg/unsafe/)
  package. For typical uses it will be 10-30% slower, but the delta is
  dependent on the type of the data and in some cases, especially
  involving arrays, it can be faster. There is no functional change.

- The [`encoding/xml`](/pkg/encoding/xml/) package's
  [`Decoder`](/pkg/encoding/xml/#Decoder) can now report its input
  offset.

- In the [`fmt`](/pkg/fmt/) package, formatting of pointers to maps has
  changed to be consistent with that of pointers to structs, arrays, and
  so on. For instance, `&map[string]int{"one":` `1}` now prints by
  default as `&map[one:` `1]` rather than as a hexadecimal pointer
  value.

- The [`image`](/pkg/image/) package's [`Image`](/pkg/image/#Image)
  implementations like [`RGBA`](/pkg/image/#RGBA) and
  [`Gray`](/pkg/image/#Gray) have specialized
  [`RGBAAt`](/pkg/image/#RGBA.RGBAAt) and
  [`GrayAt`](/pkg/image/#Gray.GrayAt) methods alongside the general
  [`At`](/pkg/image/#Image.At) method.

- The [`image/png`](/pkg/image/png/) package now has an
  [`Encoder`](/pkg/image/png/#Encoder) type to control the compression
  level used for encoding.

- The [`math`](/pkg/math/) package now has a
  [`Nextafter32`](/pkg/math/#Nextafter32) function.

- The [`net/http`](/pkg/net/http/) package's
  [`Request`](/pkg/net/http/#Request) type has a new
  [`BasicAuth`](/pkg/net/http/#Request.BasicAuth) method that returns
  the username and password from authenticated requests using the HTTP
  Basic Authentication Scheme.

- The [`net/http`](/pkg/net/http/) package's
  [`Transport`](/pkg/net/http/#Request) type has a new
  [`DialTLS`](/pkg/net/http/#Transport.DialTLS) hook that allows
  customizing the behavior of outbound TLS connections.

- The [`net/http/httputil`](/pkg/net/http/httputil/) package's
  [`ReverseProxy`](/pkg/net/http/httputil/#ReverseProxy) type has a new
  field, [`ErrorLog`](/pkg/net/http/#ReverseProxy.ErrorLog), that
  provides user control of logging.

- The [`os`](/pkg/os/) package now implements symbolic links on the
  Windows operating system through the [`Symlink`](/pkg/os/#Symlink)
  function. Other operating systems already have this functionality.
  There is also a new [`Unsetenv`](/pkg/os/#Unsetenv) function.

- The [`reflect`](/pkg/reflect/) package's [`Type`](/pkg/reflect/#Type)
  interface has a new method,
  [`Comparable`](/pkg/reflect/#type.Comparable), that reports whether
  the type implements general comparisons.

- Also in the [`reflect`](/pkg/reflect/) package, the
  [`Value`](/pkg/reflect/#Value) interface is now three instead of four
  words because of changes to the implementation of interfaces in the
  runtime. This saves memory but has no semantic effect.

- The [`runtime`](/pkg/runtime/) package now implements monotonic clocks
  on Windows, as it already did for the other systems.

- The [`runtime`](/pkg/runtime/) package's
  [`Mallocs`](/pkg/runtime/#MemStats.Mallocs) counter now counts very
  small allocations that were missed in Go 1.3. This may break tests
  using [`ReadMemStats`](/pkg/runtime/#ReadMemStats) or
  [`AllocsPerRun`](/pkg/testing/#AllocsPerRun) due to the more accurate
  answer.

- In the [`runtime`](/pkg/runtime/) package, an array
  [`PauseEnd`](/pkg/runtime/#MemStats.PauseEnd) has been added to the
  [`MemStats`](/pkg/runtime/#MemStats) and
  [`GCStats`](/pkg/runtime/#GCStats) structs. This array is a circular
  buffer of times when garbage collection pauses ended. The
  corresponding pause durations are already recorded in
  [`PauseNs`](/pkg/runtime/#MemStats.PauseNs)

- The [`runtime/race`](/pkg/runtime/race/) package now supports FreeBSD,
  which means the [`go`](/pkg/cmd/go/) command's `-race` flag now works
  on FreeBSD.

- The [`sync/atomic`](/pkg/sync/atomic/) package has a new type,
  [`Value`](/pkg/sync/atomic/#Value). `Value` provides an efficient
  mechanism for atomic loads and stores of values of arbitrary type.

- In the [`syscall`](/pkg/syscall/) package's implementation on Linux,
  the [`Setuid`](/pkg/syscall/#Setuid) and
  [`Setgid`](/pkg/syscall/#Setgid) have been disabled because those
  system calls operate on the calling thread, not the whole process,
  which is different from other platforms and not the expected result.

- The [`testing`](/pkg/testing/) package has a new facility to provide
  more control over running a set of tests. If the test code contains a
  function


      func TestMain(m *testing.M)

  that function will be called instead of running the tests directly.
  The `M` struct contains methods to access and run the tests.

- Also in the [`testing`](/pkg/testing/) package, a new
  [`Coverage`](/pkg/testing/#Coverage) function reports the current test
  coverage fraction, enabling individual tests to report how much they
  are contributing to the overall coverage.

- The [`text/scanner`](/pkg/text/scanner/) package's
  [`Scanner`](/pkg/text/scanner/#Scanner) type has a new function,
  [`IsIdentRune`](/pkg/text/scanner/#Scanner.IsIdentRune), allowing one
  to control the definition of an identifier when scanning.

- The [`text/template`](/pkg/text/template/) package's boolean functions
  `eq`, `lt`, and so on have been generalized to allow comparison of
  signed and unsigned integers, simplifying their use in practice.
  (Previously one could only compare values of the same signedness.) All
  negative values compare less than all unsigned values.

- The `time` package now uses the standard symbol for the micro prefix,
  the micro symbol (U+00B5 'µ'), to print microsecond durations.
  [`ParseDuration`](/pkg/time/#ParseDuration) still accepts `us` but the
  package no longer prints microseconds as `us`.\
  *Updating*: Code that depends on the output format of durations but
  does not use ParseDuration will need to be updated.
:::
:::::
