::::: {#main-content .SiteContent .SiteContent--default role="main"}
# Go 1.17 Release Notes

::: {#nav .TOC}
:::

::: markdown
## Introduction to Go 1.17 {#introduction}

The latest Go release, version 1.17, arrives six months after [Go
1.16](/doc/go1.16). Most of its changes are in the implementation of the
toolchain, runtime, and libraries. As always, the release maintains the
Go 1 [promise of compatibility](/doc/go1compat). We expect almost all Go
programs to continue to compile and run as before.

## Changes to the language {#language}

Go 1.17 includes three small enhancements to the language.

- [Conversions from slice to array
  pointer](/ref/spec#Conversions_from_slice_to_array_pointer): An
  expression `s` of type `[]T` may now be converted to array pointer
  type `*[N]T`. If `a` is the result of such a conversion, then
  corresponding indices that are in range refer to the same underlying
  elements: `&a[i] == &s[i]` for `0 <= i < N`. The conversion panics if
  `len(s)` is less than `N`.
- [`unsafe.Add`](/pkg/unsafe#Add): `unsafe.Add(ptr, len)` adds `len` to
  `ptr` and returns the updated pointer
  `unsafe.Pointer(uintptr(ptr) + uintptr(len))`.
- [`unsafe.Slice`](/pkg/unsafe#Slice): For expression `ptr` of type
  `*T`, `unsafe.Slice(ptr, len)` returns a slice of type `[]T` whose
  underlying array starts at `ptr` and whose length and capacity are
  `len`.

The package unsafe enhancements were added to simplify writing code that
conforms to `unsafe.Pointer`'s [safety rules](/pkg/unsafe/#Pointer), but
the rules remain unchanged. In particular, existing programs that
correctly use `unsafe.Pointer` remain valid, and new programs must still
follow the rules when using `unsafe.Add` or `unsafe.Slice`.

Note that the new conversion from slice to array pointer is the first
case in which a type conversion can panic at run time. Analysis tools
that assume type conversions can never panic should be updated to
consider this possibility.

## Ports

### Darwin

As [announced](go1.16#darwin) in the Go 1.16 release notes, Go 1.17
requires macOS 10.13 High Sierra or later; support for previous versions
has been discontinued.

### Windows

Go 1.17 adds support of 64-bit ARM architecture on Windows (the
`windows/arm64` port). This port supports cgo.

### OpenBSD

The 64-bit MIPS architecture on OpenBSD (the `openbsd/mips64` port) now
supports cgo.

In Go 1.16, on the 64-bit x86 and 64-bit ARM architectures on OpenBSD
(the `openbsd/amd64` and `openbsd/arm64` ports) system calls are made
through `libc`, instead of directly using machine instructions. In Go
1.17, this is also done on the 32-bit x86 and 32-bit ARM architectures
on OpenBSD (the `openbsd/386` and `openbsd/arm` ports). This ensures
compatibility with OpenBSD 6.9 onwards, which require system calls to be
made through `libc` for non-static Go binaries.

### ARM64

Go programs now maintain stack frame pointers on the 64-bit ARM
architecture on all operating systems. Previously, stack frame pointers
were only enabled on Linux, macOS, and iOS.

### loong64 GOARCH value reserved {#loong64}

The main Go compiler does not yet support the LoongArch architecture,
but we've reserved the `GOARCH` value "`loong64`". This means that Go
files named `*_loong64.go` will now be [ignored by Go
tools](/pkg/go/build/#hdr-Build_Constraints) except when that GOARCH
value is being used.

## Tools

### Go command

[]{#lazy-loading}

#### Pruned module graphs in `go 1.17` modules {#graph-pruning}

If a module specifies `go` `1.17` or higher, the module graph includes
only the *immediate* dependencies of other `go` `1.17` modules, not
their full transitive dependencies. (See [Module graph
pruning](/ref/mod#graph-pruning) for more detail.)

For the `go` command to correctly resolve transitive imports using the
pruned module graph, the `go.mod` file for each module needs to include
more detail about the transitive dependencies relevant to that module.
If a module specifies `go` `1.17` or higher in its `go.mod` file, its
`go.mod` file now contains an explicit [`require`
directive](/ref/mod#go-mod-file-require) for every module that provides
a transitively-imported package. (In previous versions, the `go.mod`
file typically only included explicit requirements for
*directly*-imported packages.)

Since the expanded `go.mod` file needed for module graph pruning
includes all of the dependencies needed to load the imports of any
package in the main module, if the main module specifies `go` `1.17` or
higher the `go` tool no longer reads (or even downloads) `go.mod` files
for dependencies if they are not needed in order to complete the
requested command. (See [Lazy loading](/ref/mod#lazy-loading).)

Because the number of explicit requirements may be substantially larger
in an expanded Go 1.17 `go.mod` file, the newly-added requirements on
*indirect* dependencies in a `go` `1.17` module are maintained in a
separate `require` block from the block containing direct dependencies.

To facilitate the upgrade to Go 1.17 pruned module graphs, the [`go`
`mod` `tidy`](/ref/mod#go-mod-tidy) subcommand now supports a `-go` flag
to set or change the `go` version in the `go.mod` file. To convert the
`go.mod` file for an existing module to Go 1.17 without changing the
selected versions of its dependencies, run:

      go mod tidy -go=1.17

By default, `go` `mod` `tidy` verifies that the selected versions of
dependencies relevant to the main module are the same versions that
would be used by the prior Go release (Go 1.16 for a module that
specifies `go` `1.17`), and preserves the `go.sum` entries needed by
that release even for dependencies that are not normally needed by other
commands.

The `-compat` flag allows that version to be overridden to support older
(or only newer) versions, up to the version specified by the `go`
directive in the `go.mod` file. To tidy a `go` `1.17` module for Go 1.17
only, without saving checksums for (or checking for consistency with) Go
1.16:

      go mod tidy -compat=1.17

Note that even if the main module is tidied with `-compat=1.17`, users
who `require` the module from a `go` `1.16` or earlier module will still
be able to use it, provided that the packages use only compatible
language and library features.

The [`go` `mod` `graph`](/ref/mod#go-mod-graph) subcommand also supports
the `-go` flag, which causes it to report the graph as seen by the
indicated Go version, showing dependencies that may otherwise be pruned
out.

#### Module deprecation comments

Module authors may deprecate a module by adding a [`// Deprecated:`
comment](/ref/mod#go-mod-file-module-deprecation) to `go.mod`, then
tagging a new version. `go` `get` now prints a warning if a module
needed to build packages named on the command line is deprecated. `go`
`list` `-m` `-u` prints deprecations for all dependencies (use `-f` or
`-json` to show the full message). The `go` command considers different
major versions to be distinct modules, so this mechanism may be used,
for example, to provide users with migration instructions for a new
major version.

#### `go` `get`

The `go` `get` `-insecure` flag is deprecated and has been removed. To
permit the use of insecure schemes when fetching dependencies, please
use the `GOINSECURE` environment variable. The `-insecure` flag also
bypassed module sum validation, use `GOPRIVATE` or `GONOSUMDB` if you
need that functionality. See `go` `help` `environment` for details.

`go` `get` prints a deprecation warning when installing commands outside
the main module (without the `-d` flag). `go` `install` `cmd@version`
should be used instead to install a command at a specific version, using
a suffix like `@latest` or `@v1.2.3`. In Go 1.18, the `-d` flag will
always be enabled, and `go` `get` will only be used to change
dependencies in `go.mod`.

#### `go.mod` files missing `go` directives {#missing-go-directive}

If the main module's `go.mod` file does not contain a [`go`
directive](/doc/modules/gomod-ref#go) and the `go` command cannot update
the `go.mod` file, the `go` command now assumes `go 1.11` instead of the
current release. (`go` `mod` `init` has added `go` directives
automatically [since Go 1.12](/doc/go1.12#modules).)

If a module dependency lacks an explicit `go.mod` file, or its `go.mod`
file does not contain a [`go` directive](/doc/modules/gomod-ref#go), the
`go` command now assumes `go 1.16` for that dependency instead of the
current release. (Dependencies developed in GOPATH mode may lack a
`go.mod` file, and the `vendor/modules.txt` has to date never recorded
the `go` versions indicated by dependencies' `go.mod` files.)

#### `vendor` contents {#vendor}

If the main module specifies `go` `1.17` or higher, [`go` `mod`
`vendor`](/ref/mod#go-mod-vendor) now annotates `vendor/modules.txt`
with the `go` version indicated by each vendored module in its own
`go.mod` file. The annotated version is used when building the module's
packages from vendored source code.

If the main module specifies `go` `1.17` or higher, `go` `mod` `vendor`
now omits `go.mod` and `go.sum` files for vendored dependencies, which
can otherwise interfere with the ability of the `go` command to identify
the correct module root when invoked within the `vendor` tree.

#### Password prompts

The `go` command by default now suppresses SSH password prompts and Git
Credential Manager prompts when fetching Git repositories using SSH, as
it already did previously for other Git password prompts. Users
authenticating to private Git repos with password-protected SSH may
configure an `ssh-agent` to enable the `go` command to use
password-protected SSH keys.

#### `go` `mod` `download`

When `go` `mod` `download` is invoked without arguments, it will no
longer save sums for downloaded module content to `go.sum`. It may still
make changes to `go.mod` and `go.sum` needed to load the build list.
This is the same as the behavior in Go 1.15. To save sums for all
modules, use `go` `mod` `download` `all`.

#### `//go:build` lines {#build-lines}

The `go` command now understands `//go:build` lines and prefers them
over `// +build` lines. The new syntax uses boolean expressions, just
like Go, and should be less error-prone. As of this release, the new
syntax is fully supported, and all Go files should be updated to have
both forms with the same meaning. To aid in migration, [`gofmt`](#gofmt)
now automatically synchronizes the two forms. For more details on the
syntax and migration plan, see
[https://golang.org/design/draft-gobuild](/design/draft-gobuild).

#### `go` `run` {#go_run}

`go` `run` now accepts arguments with version suffixes (for example,
`go` `run` `example.com/cmd@v1.0.0`). This causes `go` `run` to build
and run packages in module-aware mode, ignoring the `go.mod` file in the
current directory or any parent directory, if there is one. This is
useful for running executables without installing them or without
changing dependencies of the current module.

### Gofmt

`gofmt` (and `go` `fmt`) now synchronizes `//go:build` lines with
`// +build` lines. If a file only has `// +build` lines, they will be
moved to the appropriate location in the file, and matching `//go:build`
lines will be added. Otherwise, `// +build` lines will be overwritten
based on any existing `//go:build` lines. For more information, see
[https://golang.org/design/draft-gobuild](/design/draft-gobuild).

### Vet

#### New warning for mismatched `//go:build` and `// +build` lines {#vet-buildtags}

The `vet` tool now verifies that `//go:build` and `// +build` lines are
in the correct part of the file and synchronized with each other. If
they aren't, [`gofmt`](#gofmt) can be used to fix them. For more
information, see
[https://golang.org/design/draft-gobuild](/design/draft-gobuild).

#### New warning for calling `signal.Notify` on unbuffered channels {#vet-sigchanyzer}

The vet tool now warns about calls to
[signal.Notify](/pkg/os/signal/#Notify) with incoming signals being sent
to an unbuffered channel. Using an unbuffered channel risks missing
signals sent on them as `signal.Notify` does not block when sending to a
channel. For example:

    c := make(chan os.Signal)
    // signals are sent on c before the channel is read from.
    // This signal may be dropped as c is unbuffered.
    signal.Notify(c, os.Interrupt)

Users of `signal.Notify` should use channels with sufficient buffer
space to keep up with the expected signal rate.

#### New warnings for Is, As and Unwrap methods {#vet-error-stdmethods}

The vet tool now warns about methods named `As`, `Is` or `Unwrap` on
types implementing the `error` interface that have a different signature
than the one expected by the `errors` package. The
`errors.{As,Is,Unwrap}` functions expect such methods to implement
either `Is(error)` `bool`, `As(interface{})` `bool`, or `Unwrap()`
`error` respectively. The functions `errors.{As,Is,Unwrap}` will ignore
methods with the same names but a different signature. For example:

    type MyError struct { hint string }
    func (m MyError) Error() string { ... } // MyError implements error.
    func (MyError) Is(target interface{}) bool { ... } // target is interface{} instead of error.
    func Foo() bool {
        x, y := MyError{"A"}, MyError{"B"}
        return errors.Is(x, y) // returns false as x != y and MyError does not have an `Is(error) bool` function.
    }

### Cover

The `cover` tool now uses an optimized parser from
`golang.org/x/tools/cover`, which may be noticeably faster when parsing
large coverage profiles.

## Compiler

Go 1.17 implements a new way of passing function arguments and results
using registers instead of the stack. Benchmarks for a representative
set of Go packages and programs show performance improvements of about
5%, and a typical reduction in binary size of about 2%. This is
currently enabled for Linux, macOS, and Windows on the 64-bit x86
architecture (the `linux/amd64`, `darwin/amd64`, and `windows/amd64`
ports).

This change does not affect the functionality of any safe Go code and is
designed to have no impact on most assembly code. It may affect code
that violates the [`unsafe.Pointer`](/pkg/unsafe#Pointer) rules when
accessing function arguments, or that depends on undocumented behavior
involving comparing function code pointers. To maintain compatibility
with existing assembly functions, the compiler generates adapter
functions that convert between the new register-based calling convention
and the previous stack-based calling convention. These adapters are
typically invisible to users, except that taking the address of a Go
function in assembly code or taking the address of an assembly function
in Go code using `reflect.ValueOf(fn).Pointer()` or `unsafe.Pointer`
will now return the address of the adapter. Code that depends on the
value of these code pointers may no longer behave as expected. Adapters
also may cause a very small performance overhead in two cases: calling
an assembly function indirectly from Go via a `func` value, and calling
Go functions from assembly.

The format of stack traces from the runtime (printed when an uncaught
panic occurs, or when `runtime.Stack` is called) is improved.
Previously, the function arguments were printed as hexadecimal words
based on the memory layout. Now each argument in the source code is
printed separately, separated by commas. Aggregate-typed (struct, array,
string, slice, interface, and complex) arguments are delimited by curly
braces. A caveat is that the value of an argument that only lives in a
register and is not stored to memory may be inaccurate. Function return
values (which were usually inaccurate) are no longer printed.

Functions containing closures can now be inlined. One effect of this
change is that a function with a closure may produce a distinct closure
code pointer for each place that the function is inlined. Go function
values are not directly comparable, but this change could reveal bugs in
code that uses `reflect` or `unsafe.Pointer` to bypass this language
restriction and compare functions by code pointer.

### Linker {#link}

When the linker uses external linking mode, which is the default when
linking a program that uses cgo, and the linker is invoked with a `-I`
option, the option will now be passed to the external linker as a
`-Wl,--dynamic-linker` option.

## Standard library {#library}

### [Cgo](/pkg/runtime/cgo) {#runtime_cgo}

The [runtime/cgo](/pkg/runtime/cgo) package now provides a new facility
that allows to turn any Go values to a safe representation that can be
used to pass values between C and Go safely. See
[runtime/cgo.Handle](/pkg/runtime/cgo#Handle) for more information.

### URL query parsing {#semicolons}

The `net/url` and `net/http` packages used to accept `";"` (semicolon)
as a setting separator in URL queries, in addition to `"&"` (ampersand).
Now, settings with non-percent-encoded semicolons are rejected and
`net/http` servers will log a warning to
[`Server.ErrorLog`](/pkg/net/http#Server.ErrorLog) when encountering one
in a request URL.

For example, before Go 1.17 the [`Query`](/pkg/net/url#URL.Query) method
of the URL `example?a=1;b=2&c=3` would have returned
`map[a:[1] b:[2] c:[3]]`, while now it returns `map[c:[3]]`.

When encountering such a query string,
[`URL.Query`](/pkg/net/url#URL.Query) and
[`Request.FormValue`](/pkg/net/http#Request.FormValue) ignore any
settings that contain a semicolon,
[`ParseQuery`](/pkg/net/url#ParseQuery) returns the remaining settings
and an error, and [`Request.ParseForm`](/pkg/net/http#Request.ParseForm)
and
[`Request.ParseMultipartForm`](/pkg/net/http#Request.ParseMultipartForm)
return an error but still set `Request` fields based on the remaining
settings.

`net/http` users can restore the original behavior by using the new
[`AllowQuerySemicolons`](/pkg/net/http#AllowQuerySemicolons) handler
wrapper. This will also suppress the `ErrorLog` warning. Note that
accepting semicolons as query separators can lead to security issues if
different systems interpret cache keys differently. See [issue
25192](/issue/25192) for more information.

### TLS strict ALPN {#ALPN}

When [`Config.NextProtos`](/pkg/crypto/tls#Config.NextProtos) is set,
servers now enforce that there is an overlap between the configured
protocols and the ALPN protocols advertised by the client, if any. If
there is no mutually supported protocol, the connection is closed with
the `no_application_protocol` alert, as required by RFC 7301. This helps
mitigate [the ALPACA cross-protocol
attack](https://alpaca-attack.com/){rel="noreferrer" target="_blank"}.

As an exception, when the value `"h2"` is included in the server's
`Config.NextProtos`, HTTP/1.1 clients will be allowed to connect as if
they didn't support ALPN. See [issue 46310](/issue/46310) for more
information.

### Minor changes to the library {#minor_library_changes}

As always, there are various minor changes and updates to the library,
made with the Go 1 [promise of compatibility](/doc/go1compat) in mind.

#### [archive/zip](/pkg/archive/zip/) {#archivezippkgarchivezip}

The new methods [`File.OpenRaw`](/pkg/archive/zip#File.OpenRaw),
[`Writer.CreateRaw`](/pkg/archive/zip#Writer.CreateRaw),
[`Writer.Copy`](/pkg/archive/zip#Writer.Copy) provide support for cases
where performance is a primary concern.

#### [bufio](/pkg/bufio/) {#bufiopkgbufio}

The [`Writer.WriteRune`](/pkg/bufio/#Writer.WriteRune) method now writes
the replacement character U+FFFD for negative rune values, as it does
for other invalid runes.

#### [bytes](/pkg/bytes/) {#bytespkgbytes}

The [`Buffer.WriteRune`](/pkg/bytes/#Buffer.WriteRune) method now writes
the replacement character U+FFFD for negative rune values, as it does
for other invalid runes.

#### [compress/lzw](/pkg/compress/lzw/) {#compresslzwpkgcompresslzw}

The [`NewReader`](/pkg/compress/lzw/#NewReader) function is guaranteed
to return a value of the new type [`Reader`](/pkg/compress/lzw/#Reader),
and similarly [`NewWriter`](/pkg/compress/lzw/#NewWriter) is guaranteed
to return a value of the new type [`Writer`](/pkg/compress/lzw/#Writer).
These new types both implement a `Reset` method
([`Reader.Reset`](/pkg/compress/lzw/#Reader.Reset),
[`Writer.Reset`](/pkg/compress/lzw/#Writer.Reset)) that allows reuse of
the `Reader` or `Writer`.

#### [crypto/ed25519](/pkg/crypto/ed25519/) {#cryptoed25519pkgcryptoed25519}

The `crypto/ed25519` package has been rewritten, and all operations are
now approximately twice as fast on amd64 and arm64. The observable
behavior has not otherwise changed.

#### [crypto/elliptic](/pkg/crypto/elliptic/) {#cryptoellipticpkgcryptoelliptic}

[`CurveParams`](/pkg/crypto/elliptic#CurveParams) methods now
automatically invoke faster and safer dedicated implementations for
known curves (P-224, P-256, and P-521) when available. Note that this is
a best-effort approach and applications should avoid using the generic,
not constant-time `CurveParams` methods and instead use dedicated
[`Curve`](/pkg/crypto/elliptic#Curve) implementations such as
[`P256`](/pkg/crypto/elliptic#P256).

The [`P521`](/pkg/crypto/elliptic#P521) curve implementation has been
rewritten using code generated by the [fiat-crypto
project](https://github.com/mit-plv/fiat-crypto){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"}, which is based on a formally-verified model of the
arithmetic operations. It is now constant-time and three times faster on
amd64 and arm64. The observable behavior has not otherwise changed.

#### [crypto/rand](/pkg/crypto/rand/) {#cryptorandpkgcryptorand}

The `crypto/rand` package now uses the `getentropy` syscall on macOS and
the `getrandom` syscall on Solaris, Illumos, and DragonFlyBSD.

#### [crypto/tls](/pkg/crypto/tls/) {#cryptotlspkgcryptotls}

The new [`Conn.HandshakeContext`](/pkg/crypto/tls#Conn.HandshakeContext)
method allows the user to control cancellation of an in-progress TLS
handshake. The provided context is accessible from various callbacks
through the new
[`ClientHelloInfo.Context`](/pkg/crypto/tls#ClientHelloInfo.Context) and
[`CertificateRequestInfo.Context`](/pkg/crypto/tls#CertificateRequestInfo.Context)
methods. Canceling the context after the handshake has finished has no
effect.

Cipher suite ordering is now handled entirely by the `crypto/tls`
package. Currently, cipher suites are sorted based on their security,
performance, and hardware support taking into account both the local and
peer's hardware. The order of the
[`Config.CipherSuites`](/pkg/crypto/tls#Config.CipherSuites) field is
now ignored, as well as the
[`Config.PreferServerCipherSuites`](/pkg/crypto/tls#Config.PreferServerCipherSuites)
field. Note that `Config.CipherSuites` still allows applications to
choose what TLS 1.0--1.2 cipher suites to enable.

The 3DES cipher suites have been moved to
[`InsecureCipherSuites`](/pkg/crypto/tls#InsecureCipherSuites) due to
[fundamental block size-related
weakness](https://sweet32.info/){rel="noreferrer" target="_blank"}. They
are still enabled by default but only as a last resort, thanks to the
cipher suite ordering change above.

Beginning in the next release, Go 1.18, the
[`Config.MinVersion`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#Config.MinVersion) for
`crypto/tls` clients will default to TLS 1.2, disabling TLS 1.0 and TLS
1.1 by default. Applications will be able to override the change by
explicitly setting `Config.MinVersion`. This will not affect
`crypto/tls` servers.

#### [crypto/x509](/pkg/crypto/x509/) {#cryptox509pkgcryptox509}

[`CreateCertificate`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#CreateCertificate) now returns
an error if the provided private key doesn't match the parent's public
key, if any. The resulting certificate would have failed to verify.

The temporary `GODEBUG=x509ignoreCN=0` flag has been removed.

[`ParseCertificate`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#ParseCertificate) has been
rewritten, and now consumes \~70% fewer resources. The observable
behavior when processing WebPKI certificates has not otherwise changed,
except for error messages.

On BSD systems, `/etc/ssl/certs` is now searched for trusted roots. This
adds support for the new system trusted certificate store in FreeBSD
12.2+.

Beginning in the next release, Go 1.18, `crypto/x509` will reject
certificates signed with the SHA-1 hash function. This doesn't apply to
self-signed root certificates. Practical attacks against SHA-1 [have
been demonstrated in 2017](https://shattered.io/){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"} and publicly trusted Certificate Authorities have not
issued SHA-1 certificates since 2015.

#### [database/sql](/pkg/database/sql/) {#databasesqlpkgdatabasesql}

The [`DB.Close`](/pkg/database/sql/#DB.Close) method now closes the
`connector` field if the type in this field implements the
[`io.Closer`](/pkg/io/#Closer) interface.

The new [`NullInt16`](/pkg/database/sql/#NullInt16) and
[`NullByte`](/pkg/database/sql/#NullByte) structs represent the int16
and byte values that may be null. These can be used as destinations of
the [`Scan`](/pkg/database/sql/#Scan) method, similar to NullString.

#### [debug/elf](/pkg/debug/elf/) {#debugelfpkgdebugelf}

The [`SHT_MIPS_ABIFLAGS`](/pkg/debug/elf/#SHT_MIPS_ABIFLAGS) constant
has been added.

#### [encoding/binary](/pkg/encoding/binary/) {#encodingbinarypkgencodingbinary}

`binary.Uvarint` will stop reading after `10 bytes` to avoid wasted
computations. If more than `10 bytes` are needed, the byte count
returned is `-11`.\
Previous Go versions could return larger negative counts when reading
incorrectly encoded varints.

#### [encoding/csv](/pkg/encoding/csv/) {#encodingcsvpkgencodingcsv}

The new [`Reader.FieldPos`](/pkg/encoding/csv/#Reader.FieldPos) method
returns the line and column corresponding to the start of a given field
in the record most recently returned by
[`Read`](/pkg/encoding/csv/#Reader.Read).

#### [encoding/xml](/pkg/encoding/xml/) {#encodingxmlpkgencodingxml}

When a comment appears within a
[`Directive`](/pkg/encoding/xml/#Directive), it is now replaced with a
single space instead of being completely elided.

Invalid element or attribute names with leading, trailing, or multiple
colons are now stored unmodified into the
[`Name.Local`](/pkg/encoding/xml/#Name) field.

#### [flag](/pkg/flag/) {#flagpkgflag}

Flag declarations now panic if an invalid name is specified.

#### [go/build](/pkg/go/build/) {#gobuildpkggobuild}

The new [`Context.ToolTags`](/pkg/go/build/#Context.ToolTags) field
holds the build tags appropriate to the current Go toolchain
configuration.

#### [go/format](/pkg/go/format/) {#goformatpkggoformat}

The [`Source`](/pkg/go/format/#Source) and
[`Node`](/pkg/go/format/#Node) functions now synchronize `//go:build`
lines with `// +build` lines. If a file only has `// +build` lines, they
will be moved to the appropriate location in the file, and matching
`//go:build` lines will be added. Otherwise, `// +build` lines will be
overwritten based on any existing `//go:build` lines. For more
information, see
[https://golang.org/design/draft-gobuild](/design/draft-gobuild).

#### [go/parser](/pkg/go/parser/) {#goparserpkggoparser}

The new [`SkipObjectResolution`](/pkg/go/parser/#SkipObjectResolution)
`Mode` value instructs the parser not to resolve identifiers to their
declaration. This may improve parsing speed.

#### [image](/pkg/image/) {#imagepkgimage}

The concrete image types (`RGBA`, `Gray16` and so on) now implement a
new [`RGBA64Image`](/pkg/image/#RGBA64Image) interface. The concrete
types that previously implemented [`draw.Image`](/pkg/image/draw/#Image)
now also implement [`draw.RGBA64Image`](/pkg/image/draw/#RGBA64Image), a
new interface in the `image/draw` package.

#### [io/fs](/pkg/io/fs/) {#iofspkgiofs}

The new [`FileInfoToDirEntry`](/pkg/io/fs/#FileInfoToDirEntry) function
converts a `FileInfo` to a `DirEntry`.

#### [math](/pkg/math/) {#mathpkgmath}

The math package now defines three more constants: `MaxUint`, `MaxInt`
and `MinInt`. For 32-bit systems their values are `2^32 - 1`, `2^31 - 1`
and `-2^31`, respectively. For 64-bit systems their values are
`2^64 - 1`, `2^63 - 1` and `-2^63`, respectively.

#### [mime](/pkg/mime/) {#mimepkgmime}

On Unix systems, the table of MIME types is now read from the local
system's [Shared MIME-info
Database](https://specifications.freedesktop.org/shared-mime-info-spec/shared-mime-info-spec-0.21.html){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"} when available.

#### [mime/multipart](/pkg/mime/multipart/) {#mimemultipartpkgmimemultipart}

[`Part.FileName`](/pkg/mime/multipart/#Part.FileName) now applies
[`filepath.Base`](/pkg/path/filepath/#Base) to the return value. This
mitigates potential path traversal vulnerabilities in applications that
accept multipart messages, such as `net/http` servers that call
[`Request.FormFile`](/pkg/net/http/#Request.FormFile).

#### [net](/pkg/net/) {#netpkgnet}

The new method [`IP.IsPrivate`](/pkg/net/#IP.IsPrivate) reports whether
an address is a private IPv4 address according to [RFC
1918](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc1918){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"} or a local IPv6 address according [RFC
4193](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc4193){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"}.

The Go DNS resolver now only sends one DNS query when resolving an
address for an IPv4-only or IPv6-only network, rather than querying for
both address families.

The [`ErrClosed`](/pkg/net/#ErrClosed) sentinel error and
[`ParseError`](/pkg/net/#ParseError) error type now implement the
[`net.Error`](/pkg/net/#Error) interface.

The [`ParseIP`](/pkg/net/#ParseIP) and
[`ParseCIDR`](/pkg/net/#ParseCIDR) functions now reject IPv4 addresses
which contain decimal components with leading zeros. These components
were always interpreted as decimal, but some operating systems treat
them as octal. This mismatch could hypothetically lead to security
issues if a Go application was used to validate IP addresses which were
then used in their original form with non-Go applications which
interpreted components as octal. Generally, it is advisable to always
re-encode values after validation, which avoids this class of parser
misalignment issues.

#### [net/http](/pkg/net/http/) {#nethttppkgnethttp}

The [`net/http`](/pkg/net/http/) package now uses the new
[`(*tls.Conn).HandshakeContext`](/pkg/crypto/tls#Conn.HandshakeContext)
with the [`Request`](/pkg/net/http/#Request) context when performing TLS
handshakes in the client or server.

Setting the [`Server`](/pkg/net/http/#Server) `ReadTimeout` or
`WriteTimeout` fields to a negative value now indicates no timeout
rather than an immediate timeout.

The [`ReadRequest`](/pkg/net/http/#ReadRequest) function now returns an
error when the request has multiple Host headers.

When producing a redirect to the cleaned version of a URL,
[`ServeMux`](/pkg/net/http/#ServeMux) now always uses relative URLs in
the `Location` header. Previously it would echo the full URL of the
request, which could lead to unintended redirects if the client could be
made to send an absolute request URL.

When interpreting certain HTTP headers handled by `net/http`, non-ASCII
characters are now ignored or rejected.

If [`Request.ParseForm`](/pkg/net/http/#Request.ParseForm) returns an
error when called by
[`Request.ParseMultipartForm`](/pkg/net/http/#Request.ParseMultipartForm),
the latter now continues populating
[`Request.MultipartForm`](/pkg/net/http/#Request.MultipartForm) before
returning it.

#### [net/http/httptest](/pkg/net/http/httptest/) {#nethttphttptestpkgnethttphttptest}

[`ResponseRecorder.WriteHeader`](/pkg/net/http/httptest/#ResponseRecorder.WriteHeader)
now panics when the provided code is not a valid three-digit HTTP status
code. This matches the behavior of
[`ResponseWriter`](/pkg/net/http/#ResponseWriter) implementations in the
[`net/http`](/pkg/net/http/) package.

#### [net/url](/pkg/net/url/) {#neturlpkgneturl}

The new method [`Values.Has`](/pkg/net/url/#Values.Has) reports whether
a query parameter is set.

#### [os](/pkg/os/) {#ospkgos}

The [`File.WriteString`](/pkg/os/#File.WriteString) method has been
optimized to not make a copy of the input string.

#### [reflect](/pkg/reflect/) {#reflectpkgreflect}

The new [`Value.CanConvert`](/pkg/reflect/#Value.CanConvert) method
reports whether a value can be converted to a type. This may be used to
avoid a panic when converting a slice to an array pointer type if the
slice is too short. Previously it was sufficient to use
[`Type.ConvertibleTo`](/pkg/reflect/#Type.ConvertibleTo) for this, but
the newly permitted conversion from slice to array pointer type can
panic even if the types are convertible.

The new [`StructField.IsExported`](/pkg/reflect/#StructField.IsExported)
and [`Method.IsExported`](/pkg/reflect/#Method.IsExported) methods
report whether a struct field or type method is exported. They provide a
more readable alternative to checking whether `PkgPath` is empty.

The new [`VisibleFields`](/pkg/reflect/#VisibleFields) function returns
all the visible fields in a struct type, including fields inside
anonymous struct members.

The [`ArrayOf`](/pkg/reflect/#ArrayOf) function now panics when called
with a negative length.

Checking the [`Type.ConvertibleTo`](/pkg/reflect/#Type.ConvertibleTo)
method is no longer sufficient to guarantee that a call to
[`Value.Convert`](/pkg/reflect/#Value.Convert) will not panic. It may
panic when converting \`\[\]T\` to \`\*\[N\]T\` if the slice's length is
less than N. See the [language changes](#language) section above.

The [`Value.Convert`](/pkg/reflect/#Value.Convert) and
[`Type.ConvertibleTo`](/pkg/reflect/#Type.ConvertibleTo) methods have
been fixed to not treat types in different packages with the same name
as identical, to match what the language allows.

#### [runtime/metrics](/pkg/runtime/metrics) {#runtimemetricspkgruntimemetrics}

New metrics were added that track total bytes and objects allocated and
freed. A new metric tracking the distribution of goroutine scheduling
latencies was also added.

#### [runtime/pprof](/pkg/runtime/pprof) {#runtimepprofpkgruntimepprof}

Block profiles are no longer biased to favor infrequent long events over
frequent short events.

#### [strconv](/pkg/strconv/) {#strconvpkgstrconv}

The `strconv` package now uses Ulf Adams's Ryū algorithm for formatting
floating-point numbers. This algorithm improves performance on most
inputs and is more than 99% faster on worst-case inputs.

The new [`QuotedPrefix`](/pkg/strconv/#QuotedPrefix) function returns
the quoted string (as understood by [`Unquote`](/pkg/strconv/#Unquote))
at the start of input.

#### [strings](/pkg/strings/) {#stringspkgstrings}

The [`Builder.WriteRune`](/pkg/strings/#Builder.WriteRune) method now
writes the replacement character U+FFFD for negative rune values, as it
does for other invalid runes.

#### [sync/atomic](/pkg/sync/atomic/) {#syncatomicpkgsyncatomic}

`atomic.Value` now has [`Swap`](/pkg/sync/atomic/#Value.Swap) and
[`CompareAndSwap`](/pkg/sync/atomic/#Value.CompareAndSwap) methods that
provide additional atomic operations.

#### [syscall](/pkg/syscall/) {#syscallpkgsyscall}

The
[`GetQueuedCompletionStatus`](/pkg/syscall/#GetQueuedCompletionStatus)
and
[`PostQueuedCompletionStatus`](/pkg/syscall/#PostQueuedCompletionStatus)
functions are now deprecated. These functions have incorrect signatures
and are superseded by equivalents in the
[`golang.org/x/sys/windows`](https://godoc.org/golang.org/x/sys/windows){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"} package.

On Unix-like systems, the process group of a child process is now set
with signals blocked. This avoids sending a `SIGTTOU` to the child when
the parent is in a background process group.

The Windows version of [`SysProcAttr`](/pkg/syscall/#SysProcAttr) has
two new fields. `AdditionalInheritedHandles` is a list of additional
handles to be inherited by the new child process. `ParentProcess`
permits specifying the parent process of the new process.

The constant `MSG_CMSG_CLOEXEC` is now defined on DragonFly and all
OpenBSD systems (it was already defined on some OpenBSD systems and all
FreeBSD, NetBSD, and Linux systems).

The constants `SYS_WAIT6` and `WEXITED` are now defined on NetBSD
systems (`SYS_WAIT6` was already defined on DragonFly and FreeBSD
systems; `WEXITED` was already defined on Darwin, DragonFly, FreeBSD,
Linux, and Solaris systems).

#### [testing](/pkg/testing/) {#testingpkgtesting}

Added a new [testing flag](/cmd/go/#hdr-Testing_flags) `-shuffle` which
controls the execution order of tests and benchmarks.

The new [`T.Setenv`](/pkg/testing/#T.Setenv) and
[`B.Setenv`](/pkg/testing/#B.Setenv) methods support setting an
environment variable for the duration of the test or benchmark.

#### [text/template/parse](/pkg/text/template/parse/) {#texttemplateparsepkgtexttemplateparse}

The new [`SkipFuncCheck`](/pkg/text/template/parse/#Mode) `Mode` value
changes the template parser to not verify that functions are defined.

#### [time](/pkg/time/) {#timepkgtime}

The [`Time`](/pkg/time/#Time) type now has a
[`GoString`](/pkg/time/#Time.GoString) method that will return a more
useful value for times when printed with the `%#v` format specifier in
the `fmt` package.

The new [`Time.IsDST`](/pkg/time/#Time.IsDST) method can be used to
check whether the time is in Daylight Savings Time in its configured
location.

The new [`Time.UnixMilli`](/pkg/time/#Time.UnixMilli) and
[`Time.UnixMicro`](/pkg/time/#Time.UnixMicro) methods return the number
of milliseconds and microseconds elapsed since January 1, 1970 UTC
respectively.\
The new [`UnixMilli`](/pkg/time/#UnixMilli) and
[`UnixMicro`](/pkg/time/#UnixMicro) functions return the local `Time`
corresponding to the given Unix time.

The package now accepts comma "," as a separator for fractional seconds
when parsing and formatting time. For example, the following time
layouts are now accepted:

- 2006-01-02 15:04:05,999999999 -0700 MST
- Mon Jan \_2 15:04:05,000000 2006
- Monday, January 2 15:04:05,000 2006

The new constant [`Layout`](/pkg/time/#Layout) defines the reference
time.

#### [unicode](/pkg/unicode/) {#unicodepkgunicode}

The [`Is`](/pkg/unicode/#Is), [`IsGraphic`](/pkg/unicode/#IsGraphic),
[`IsLetter`](/pkg/unicode/#IsLetter),
[`IsLower`](/pkg/unicode/#IsLower), [`IsMark`](/pkg/unicode/#IsMark),
[`IsNumber`](/pkg/unicode/#IsNumber),
[`IsPrint`](/pkg/unicode/#IsPrint), [`IsPunct`](/pkg/unicode/#IsPunct),
[`IsSpace`](/pkg/unicode/#IsSpace),
[`IsSymbol`](/pkg/unicode/#IsSymbol), and
[`IsUpper`](/pkg/unicode/#IsUpper) functions now return `false` on
negative rune values, as they do for other invalid runes.
:::
:::::
