::::: {#main-content .SiteContent .SiteContent--default role="main"}
# Go 1.5 Release Notes

::: {#nav .TOC}
:::

::: markdown
## Introduction to Go 1.5 {#introduction}

The latest Go release, version 1.5, is a significant release, including
major architectural changes to the implementation. Despite that, we
expect almost all Go programs to continue to compile and run as before,
because the release still maintains the Go 1 [promise of
compatibility](/doc/go1compat.html).

The biggest developments in the implementation are:

- The compiler and runtime are now written entirely in Go (with a little
  assembler). C is no longer involved in the implementation, and so the
  C compiler that was once necessary for building the distribution is
  gone.
- The garbage collector is now [concurrent](/s/go14gc) and provides
  dramatically lower pause times by running, when possible, in parallel
  with other goroutines.
- By default, Go programs run with `GOMAXPROCS` set to the number of
  cores available; in prior releases it defaulted to 1.
- Support for [internal packages](/s/go14internal) is now provided for
  all repositories, not just the Go core.
- The `go` command now provides [experimental support](/s/go15vendor)
  for "vendoring" external dependencies.
- A new `go tool trace` command supports fine-grained tracing of program
  execution.
- A new `go doc` command (distinct from `godoc`) is customized for
  command-line use.

These and a number of other changes to the implementation and tools are
discussed below.

The release also contains one small language change involving map
literals.

Finally, the timing of the [release](/s/releasesched) strays from the
usual six-month interval, both to provide more time to prepare this
major release and to shift the schedule thereafter to time the release
dates more conveniently.

## Changes to the language {#language}

### Map literals {#map_literals}

Due to an oversight, the rule that allowed the element type to be elided
from slice literals was not applied to map keys. This has been
[corrected](/cl/2591) in Go 1.5. An example will make this clear. As of
Go 1.5, this map literal,

    m := map[Point]string{
        Point{29.935523, 52.891566}:   "Persepolis",
        Point{-25.352594, 131.034361}: "Uluru",
        Point{37.422455, -122.084306}: "Googleplex",
    }

may be written as follows, without the `Point` type listed explicitly:

    m := map[Point]string{
        {29.935523, 52.891566}:   "Persepolis",
        {-25.352594, 131.034361}: "Uluru",
        {37.422455, -122.084306}: "Googleplex",
    }

## The Implementation {#implementation}

### No more C {#c}

The compiler and runtime are now implemented in Go and assembler,
without C. The only C source left in the tree is related to testing or
to `cgo`. There was a C compiler in the tree in 1.4 and earlier. It was
used to build the runtime; a custom compiler was necessary in part to
guarantee the C code would work with the stack management of goroutines.
Since the runtime is in Go now, there is no need for this C compiler and
it is gone. Details of the process to eliminate C are discussed
[elsewhere](/s/go13compiler).

The conversion from C was done with the help of custom tools created for
the job. Most important, the compiler was actually moved by automatic
translation of the C code into Go. It is in effect the same program in a
different language. It is not a new implementation of the compiler so we
expect the process will not have introduced new compiler bugs. An
overview of this process is available in the slides for [this
presentation](/talks/2015/gogo.slide).

### Compiler and tools {#compiler_and_tools}

Independent of but encouraged by the move to Go, the names of the tools
have changed. The old names `6g`, `8g` and so on are gone; instead there
is just one binary, accessible as `go` `tool` `compile`, that compiles
Go source into binaries suitable for the architecture and operating
system specified by `$GOARCH` and `$GOOS`. Similarly, there is now one
linker (`go` `tool` `link`) and one assembler (`go` `tool` `asm`). The
linker was translated automatically from the old C implementation, but
the assembler is a new native Go implementation discussed in more detail
below.

Similar to the drop of the names `6g`, `8g`, and so on, the output of
the compiler and assembler are now given a plain `.o` suffix rather than
`.8`, `.6`, etc.

### Garbage collector {#gc}

The garbage collector has been re-engineered for 1.5 as part of the
development outlined in the [design document](/s/go14gc). Expected
latencies are much lower than with the collector in prior releases,
through a combination of advanced algorithms, better
[scheduling](/s/go15gcpacing) of the collector, and running more of the
collection in parallel with the user program. The "stop the world" phase
of the collector will almost always be under 10 milliseconds and usually
much less.

For systems that benefit from low latency, such as user-responsive web
sites, the drop in expected latency with the new collector may be
important.

Details of the new collector were presented in a
[talk](/talks/2015/go-gc.pdf) at GopherCon 2015.

### Runtime

In Go 1.5, the order in which goroutines are scheduled has been changed.
The properties of the scheduler were never defined by the language, but
programs that depend on the scheduling order may be broken by this
change. We have seen a few (erroneous) programs affected by this change.
If you have programs that implicitly depend on the scheduling order, you
will need to update them.

Another potentially breaking change is that the runtime now sets the
default number of threads to run simultaneously, defined by
`GOMAXPROCS`, to the number of cores available on the CPU. In prior
releases the default was 1. Programs that do not expect to run with
multiple cores may break inadvertently. They can be updated by removing
the restriction or by setting `GOMAXPROCS` explicitly. For a more
detailed discussion of this change, see the [design
document](/s/go15gomaxprocs).

### Build

Now that the Go compiler and runtime are implemented in Go, a Go
compiler must be available to compile the distribution from source.
Thus, to build the Go core, a working Go distribution must already be in
place. (Go programmers who do not work on the core are unaffected by
this change.) Any Go 1.4 or later distribution (including `gccgo`) will
serve. For details, see the [design document](/s/go15bootstrap).

## Ports

Due mostly to the industry's move away from the 32-bit x86 architecture,
the set of binary downloads provided is reduced in 1.5. A distribution
for the OS X operating system is provided only for the `amd64`
architecture, not `386`. Similarly, the ports for Snow Leopard (Apple OS
X 10.6) still work but are no longer released as a download or
maintained since Apple no longer maintains that version of the operating
system. Also, the `dragonfly/386` port is no longer supported at all
because DragonflyBSD itself no longer supports the 32-bit 386
architecture.

There are however several new ports available to be built from source.
These include `darwin/arm` and `darwin/arm64`. The new port
`linux/arm64` is mostly in place, but `cgo` is only supported using
external linking.

Also available as experiments are `ppc64` and `ppc64le` (64-bit PowerPC,
big- and little-endian). Both these ports support `cgo` but only with
internal linking.

On FreeBSD, Go 1.5 requires FreeBSD 8-STABLE+ because of its new use of
the `SYSCALL` instruction.

On NaCl, Go 1.5 requires SDK version pepper-41. Later pepper versions
are not compatible due to the removal of the sRPC subsystem from the
NaCl runtime.

On Darwin, the use of the system X.509 certificate interface can be
disabled with the `ios` build tag.

The Solaris port now has full support for cgo and the packages
[`net`](/pkg/net/) and [`crypto/x509`](/pkg/crypto/x509/), as well as a
number of other fixes and improvements.

## Tools

### Translating {#translate}

As part of the process to eliminate C from the tree, the compiler and
linker were translated from C to Go. It was a genuine (machine assisted)
translation, so the new programs are essentially the old programs
translated rather than new ones with new bugs. We are confident the
translation process has introduced few if any new bugs, and in fact
uncovered a number of previously unknown bugs, now fixed.

The assembler is a new program, however; it is described below.

### Renaming {#rename}

The suites of programs that were the compilers (`6g`, `8g`, etc.), the
assemblers (`6a`, `8a`, etc.), and the linkers (`6l`, `8l`, etc.) have
each been consolidated into a single tool that is configured by the
environment variables `GOOS` and `GOARCH`. The old names are gone; the
new tools are available through the `go` `tool` mechanism as
`go tool compile`, `go tool asm`, `and go tool link`. Also, the file
suffixes `.6`, `.8`, etc. for the intermediate object files are also
gone; now they are just plain `.o` files.

For example, to build and link a program on amd64 for Darwin using the
tools directly, rather than through `go build`, one would run:

    $ export GOOS=darwin GOARCH=amd64
    $ go tool compile program.go
    $ go tool link program.o

### Moving

Because the [`go/types`](/pkg/go/types/) package has now moved into the
main repository (see below), the [`vet`](/cmd/vet) and
[`cover`](/cmd/cover) tools have also been moved. They are no longer
maintained in the external `golang.org/x/tools` repository, although
(deprecated) source still resides there for compatibility with old
releases.

### Compiler

As described above, the compiler in Go 1.5 is a single Go program,
translated from the old C source, that replaces `6g`, `8g`, and so on.
Its target is configured by the environment variables `GOOS` and
`GOARCH`.

The 1.5 compiler is mostly equivalent to the old, but some internal
details have changed. One significant change is that evaluation of
constants now uses the [`math/big`](/pkg/math/big/) package rather than
a custom (and less well tested) implementation of high precision
arithmetic. We do not expect this to affect the results.

For the amd64 architecture only, the compiler has a new option,
`-dynlink`, that assists dynamic linking by supporting references to Go
symbols defined in external shared libraries.

### Assembler

Like the compiler and linker, the assembler in Go 1.5 is a single
program that replaces the suite of assemblers (`6a`, `8a`, etc.) and the
environment variables `GOARCH` and `GOOS` configure the architecture and
operating system. Unlike the other programs, the assembler is a wholly
new program written in Go.

The new assembler is very nearly compatible with the previous ones, but
there are a few changes that may affect some assembler source files. See
the updated [assembler guide](/doc/asm) for more specific information
about these changes. In summary:

First, the expression evaluation used for constants is a little
different. It now uses unsigned 64-bit arithmetic and the precedence of
operators (`+`, `-`, `<<`, etc.) comes from Go, not C. We expect these
changes to affect very few programs but manual verification may be
required.

Perhaps more important is that on machines where `SP` or `PC` is only an
alias for a numbered register, such as `R13` for the stack pointer and
`R15` for the hardware program counter on ARM, a reference to such a
register that does not include a symbol is now illegal. For example,
`SP` and `4(SP)` are illegal but `sym+4(SP)` is fine. On such machines,
to refer to the hardware register use its true `R` name.

One minor change is that some of the old assemblers permitted the
notation

    constant=value

to define a named constant. Since this is always possible to do with the
traditional C-like `#define` notation, which is still supported (the
assembler includes an implementation of a simplified C preprocessor),
the feature was removed.

### Linker {#link}

The linker in Go 1.5 is now one Go program, that replaces `6l`, `8l`,
etc. Its operating system and instruction set are specified by the
environment variables `GOOS` and `GOARCH`.

There are several other changes. The most significant is the addition of
a `-buildmode` option that expands the style of linking; it now supports
situations such as building shared libraries and allowing other
languages to call into Go libraries. Some of these were outlined in a
[design document](/s/execmodes). For a list of the available build modes
and their use, run

    $ go help buildmode

Another minor change is that the linker no longer records build time
stamps in the header of Windows executables. Also, although this may be
fixed, Windows cgo executables are missing some DWARF information.

Finally, the `-X` flag, which takes two arguments, as in

    -X importpath.name value

now also accepts a more common Go flag style with a single argument that
is itself a `name=value` pair:

    -X importpath.name=value

Although the old syntax still works, it is recommended that uses of this
flag in scripts and the like be updated to the new form.

### Go command {#go_command}

The [`go`](/cmd/go) command's basic operation is unchanged, but there
are a number of changes worth noting.

The previous release introduced the idea of a directory internal to a
package being unimportable through the `go` command. In 1.4, it was
tested with the introduction of some internal elements in the core
repository. As suggested in the [design document](/s/go14internal), that
change is now being made available to all repositories. The rules are
explained in the design document, but in summary any package in or under
a directory named `internal` may be imported by packages rooted in the
same subtree. Existing packages with directory elements named `internal`
may be inadvertently broken by this change, which was why it was
advertised in the last release.

Another change in how packages are handled is the experimental addition
of support for "vendoring". For details, see the documentation for the
[`go` command](/cmd/go/#hdr-Vendor_Directories) and the [design
document](/s/go15vendor).

There have also been several minor changes. Read the
[documentation](/cmd/go) for full details.

- SWIG support has been updated such that `.swig` and `.swigcxx` now
  require SWIG 3.0.6 or later.
- The `install` subcommand now removes the binary created by the `build`
  subcommand in the source directory, if present, to avoid problems
  having two binaries present in the tree.
- The `std` (standard library) wildcard package name now excludes
  commands. A new `cmd` wildcard covers the commands.
- A new `-asmflags` build option sets flags to pass to the assembler.
  However, the `-ccflags` build option has been dropped; it was specific
  to the old, now deleted C compiler .
- A new `-buildmode` build option sets the build mode, described above.
- A new `-pkgdir` build option sets the location of installed package
  archives, to help isolate custom builds.
- A new `-toolexec` build option allows substitution of a different
  command to invoke the compiler and so on. This acts as a custom
  replacement for `go tool`.
- The `test` subcommand now has a `-count` flag to specify how many
  times to run each test and benchmark. The [`testing`](/pkg/testing/)
  package does the work here, through the `-test.count` flag.
- The `generate` subcommand has a couple of new features. The `-run`
  option specifies a regular expression to select which directives to
  execute; this was proposed but never implemented in 1.4. The executing
  pattern now has access to two new environment variables: `$GOLINE`
  returns the source line number of the directive and `$DOLLAR` expands
  to a dollar sign.
- The `get` subcommand now has a `-insecure` flag that must be enabled
  if fetching from an insecure repository, one that does not encrypt the
  connection.

### Go vet command {#vet_command}

The [`go tool vet`](/cmd/vet) command now does more thorough validation
of struct tags.

### Trace command {#trace_command}

A new tool is available for dynamic execution tracing of Go programs.
The usage is analogous to how the test coverage tool works. Generation
of traces is integrated into `go test`, and then a separate execution of
the tracing tool itself analyzes the results:

    $ go test -trace=trace.out path/to/package
    $ go tool trace [flags] pkg.test trace.out

The flags enable the output to be displayed in a browser window. For
details, run `go tool trace -help`. There is also a description of the
tracing facility in this [talk](/talks/2015/dynamic-tools.slide) from
GopherCon 2015.

### Go doc command {#doc_command}

A few releases back, the `go doc` command was deleted as being
unnecessary. One could always run "`godoc .`" instead. The 1.5 release
introduces a new [`go doc`](/cmd/doc) command with a more convenient
command-line interface than `godoc`'s. It is designed for command-line
usage specifically, and provides a more compact and focused presentation
of the documentation for a package or its elements, according to the
invocation. It also provides case-insensitive matching and support for
showing the documentation for unexported symbols. For details run
"`go help doc`".

### Cgo

When parsing `#cgo` lines, the invocation `${SRCDIR}` is now expanded
into the path to the source directory. This allows options to be passed
to the compiler and linker that involve file paths relative to the
source code directory. Without the expansion the paths would be invalid
when the current working directory changes.

Solaris now has full cgo support.

On Windows, cgo now uses external linking by default.

When a C struct ends with a zero-sized field, but the struct itself is
not zero-sized, Go code can no longer refer to the zero-sized field. Any
such references will have to be rewritten.

## Performance

As always, the changes are so general and varied that precise statements
about performance are difficult to make. The changes are even broader
ranging than usual in this release, which includes a new garbage
collector and a conversion of the runtime to Go. Some programs may run
faster, some slower. On average the programs in the Go 1 benchmark suite
run a few percent faster in Go 1.5 than they did in Go 1.4, while as
mentioned above the garbage collector's pauses are dramatically shorter,
and almost always under 10 milliseconds.

Builds in Go 1.5 will be slower by a factor of about two. The automatic
translation of the compiler and linker from C to Go resulted in
unidiomatic Go code that performs poorly compared to well-written Go.
Analysis tools and refactoring helped to improve the code, but much
remains to be done. Further profiling and optimization will continue in
Go 1.6 and future releases. For more details, see these
[slides](/talks/2015/gogo.slide) and associated
[video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cF1zJYkBW4A){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"}.

## Standard library {#library}

### Flag

The flag package's [`PrintDefaults`](/pkg/flag/#PrintDefaults) function,
and method on [`FlagSet`](/pkg/flag/#FlagSet), have been modified to
create nicer usage messages. The format has been changed to be more
human-friendly and in the usage messages a word quoted with
\`backquotes\` is taken to be the name of the flag's operand to display
in the usage message. For instance, a flag created with the invocation,

    cpuFlag = flag.Int("cpu", 1, "run `N` processes in parallel")

will show the help message,

    -cpu N
            run N processes in parallel (default 1)

Also, the default is now listed only when it is not the zero value for
the type.

### Floats in math/big {#math_big}

The [`math/big`](/pkg/math/big/) package has a new, fundamental data
type, [`Float`](/pkg/math/big/#Float), which implements
arbitrary-precision floating-point numbers. A `Float` value is
represented by a boolean sign, a variable-length mantissa, and a 32-bit
fixed-size signed exponent. The precision of a `Float` (the mantissa
size in bits) can be specified explicitly or is otherwise determined by
the first operation that creates the value. Once created, the size of a
`Float`'s mantissa may be modified with the
[`SetPrec`](/pkg/math/big/#Float.SetPrec) method. `Floats` support the
concept of infinities, such as are created by overflow, but values that
would lead to the equivalent of IEEE 754 NaNs trigger a panic. `Float`
operations support all IEEE-754 rounding modes. When the precision is
set to 24 (53) bits, operations that stay within the range of normalized
`float32` (`float64`) values produce the same results as the
corresponding IEEE-754 arithmetic on those values.

### Go types {#go_types}

The [`go/types`](/pkg/go/types/) package up to now has been maintained
in the `golang.org/x` repository; as of Go 1.5 it has been relocated to
the main repository. The code at the old location is now deprecated.
There is also a modest API change in the package, discussed below.

Associated with this move, the [`go/constant`](/pkg/go/constant/)
package also moved to the main repository; it was
`golang.org/x/tools/exact` before. The
[`go/importer`](/pkg/go/importer/) package also moved to the main
repository, as well as some tools described above.

### Net

The DNS resolver in the net package has almost always used `cgo` to
access the system interface. A change in Go 1.5 means that on most Unix
systems DNS resolution will no longer require `cgo`, which simplifies
execution on those platforms. Now, if the system's networking
configuration permits, the native Go resolver will suffice. The
important effect of this change is that each DNS resolution occupies a
goroutine rather than a thread, so a program with multiple outstanding
DNS requests will consume fewer operating system resources.

The decision of how to run the resolver applies at run time, not build
time. The `netgo` build tag that has been used to enforce the use of the
Go resolver is no longer necessary, although it still works. A new
`netcgo` build tag forces the use of the `cgo` resolver at build time.
To force `cgo` resolution at run time set `GODEBUG=netdns=cgo` in the
environment. More debug options are documented [here](/cl/11584).

This change applies to Unix systems only. Windows, Mac OS X, and Plan 9
systems behave as before.

### Reflect

The [`reflect`](/pkg/reflect/) package has two new functions:
[`ArrayOf`](/pkg/reflect/#ArrayOf) and [`FuncOf`](/pkg/reflect/#FuncOf).
These functions, analogous to the extant
[`SliceOf`](/pkg/reflect/#SliceOf) function, create new types at runtime
to describe arrays and functions.

### Hardening

Several dozen bugs were found in the standard library through randomized
testing with the
[`go-fuzz`](https://github.com/dvyukov/go-fuzz){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"} tool. Bugs were fixed in the
[`archive/tar`](/pkg/archive/tar/), [`archive/zip`](/pkg/archive/zip/),
[`compress/flate`](/pkg/compress/flate/),
[`encoding/gob`](/pkg/encoding/gob/), [`fmt`](/pkg/fmt/),
[`html/template`](/pkg/html/template/), [`image/gif`](/pkg/image/gif/),
[`image/jpeg`](/pkg/image/jpeg/), [`image/png`](/pkg/image/png/), and
[`text/template`](/pkg/text/template/), packages. The fixes harden the
implementation against incorrect and malicious inputs.

### Minor changes to the library {#minor_library_changes}

- The [`archive/zip`](/pkg/archive/zip/) package's
  [`Writer`](/pkg/archive/zip/#Writer) type now has a
  [`SetOffset`](/pkg/archive/zip/#Writer.SetOffset) method to specify
  the location within the output stream at which to write the archive.
- The [`Reader`](/pkg/bufio/#Reader) in the [`bufio`](/pkg/bufio/)
  package now has a [`Discard`](/pkg/bufio/#Reader.Discard) method to
  discard data from the input.
- In the [`bytes`](/pkg/bytes/) package, the
  [`Buffer`](/pkg/bytes/#Buffer) type now has a
  [`Cap`](/pkg/bytes/#Buffer.Cap) method that reports the number of
  bytes allocated within the buffer. Similarly, in both the
  [`bytes`](/pkg/bytes/) and [`strings`](/pkg/strings/) packages, the
  [`Reader`](/pkg/bytes/#Reader) type now has a
  [`Size`](/pkg/bytes/#Reader.Size) method that reports the original
  length of the underlying slice or string.
- Both the [`bytes`](/pkg/bytes/) and [`strings`](/pkg/strings/)
  packages also now have a [`LastIndexByte`](/pkg/bytes/#LastIndexByte)
  function that locates the rightmost byte with that value in the
  argument.
- The [`crypto`](/pkg/crypto/) package has a new interface,
  [`Decrypter`](/pkg/crypto/#Decrypter), that abstracts the behavior of
  a private key used in asymmetric decryption.
- In the [`crypto/cipher`](/pkg/crypto/cipher/) package, the
  documentation for the [`Stream`](/pkg/crypto/cipher/#Stream) interface
  has been clarified regarding the behavior when the source and
  destination are different lengths. If the destination is shorter than
  the source, the method will panic. This is not a change in the
  implementation, only the documentation.
- Also in the [`crypto/cipher`](/pkg/crypto/cipher/) package, there is
  now support for nonce lengths other than 96 bytes in AES's
  Galois/Counter mode (GCM), which some protocols require.
- In the [`crypto/elliptic`](/pkg/crypto/elliptic/) package, there is
  now a `Name` field in the
  [`CurveParams`](/pkg/crypto/elliptic/#CurveParams) struct, and the
  curves implemented in the package have been given names. These names
  provide a safer way to select a curve, as opposed to selecting its bit
  size, for cryptographic systems that are curve-dependent.
- Also in the [`crypto/elliptic`](/pkg/crypto/elliptic/) package, the
  [`Unmarshal`](/pkg/crypto/elliptic/#Unmarshal) function now verifies
  that the point is actually on the curve. (If it is not, the function
  returns nils). This change guards against certain attacks.
- The [`crypto/sha512`](/pkg/crypto/sha512/) package now has support for
  the two truncated versions of the SHA-512 hash algorithm, SHA-512/224
  and SHA-512/256.
- The [`crypto/tls`](/pkg/crypto/tls/) package minimum protocol version
  now defaults to TLS 1.0. The old default, SSLv3, is still available
  through [`Config`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#Config) if needed.
- The [`crypto/tls`](/pkg/crypto/tls/) package now supports Signed
  Certificate Timestamps (SCTs) as specified in RFC 6962. The server
  serves them if they are listed in the
  [`Certificate`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#Certificate) struct, and the client
  requests them and exposes them, if present, in its
  [`ConnectionState`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#ConnectionState) struct.
- The stapled OCSP response to a [`crypto/tls`](/pkg/crypto/tls/) client
  connection, previously only available via the
  [`OCSPResponse`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#Conn.OCSPResponse) method, is now
  exposed in the [`ConnectionState`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#ConnectionState)
  struct.
- The [`crypto/tls`](/pkg/crypto/tls/) server implementation will now
  always call the `GetCertificate` function in the
  [`Config`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#Config) struct to select a certificate for
  the connection when none is supplied.
- Finally, the session ticket keys in the
  [`crypto/tls`](/pkg/crypto/tls/) package can now be changed while the
  server is running. This is done through the new
  [`SetSessionTicketKeys`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#Config.SetSessionTicketKeys)
  method of the [`Config`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#Config) type.
- In the [`crypto/x509`](/pkg/crypto/x509/) package, wildcards are now
  accepted only in the leftmost label as defined in [the
  specification](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6125#section-6.4.3){rel="noreferrer"
  target="_blank"}.
- Also in the [`crypto/x509`](/pkg/crypto/x509/) package, the handling
  of unknown critical extensions has been changed. They used to cause
  parse errors but now they are parsed and caused errors only in
  [`Verify`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#Certificate.Verify). The new field
  `UnhandledCriticalExtensions` of
  [`Certificate`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#Certificate) records these
  extensions.
- The [`DB`](/pkg/database/sql/#DB) type of the
  [`database/sql`](/pkg/database/sql/) package now has a
  [`Stats`](/pkg/database/sql/#DB.Stats) method to retrieve database
  statistics.
- The [`debug/dwarf`](/pkg/debug/dwarf/) package has extensive additions
  to better support DWARF version 4. See for example the definition of
  the new type [`Class`](/pkg/debug/dwarf/#Class).
- The [`debug/dwarf`](/pkg/debug/dwarf/) package also now supports
  decoding of DWARF line tables.
- The [`debug/elf`](/pkg/debug/elf/) package now has support for the
  64-bit PowerPC architecture.
- The [`encoding/base64`](/pkg/encoding/base64/) package now supports
  unpadded encodings through two new encoding variables,
  [`RawStdEncoding`](/pkg/encoding/base64/#RawStdEncoding) and
  [`RawURLEncoding`](/pkg/encoding/base64/#RawURLEncoding).
- The [`encoding/json`](/pkg/encoding/json/) package now returns an
  [`UnmarshalTypeError`](/pkg/encoding/json/#UnmarshalTypeError) if a
  JSON value is not appropriate for the target variable or component to
  which it is being unmarshaled.
- The `encoding/json`'s [`Decoder`](/pkg/encoding/json/#Decoder) type
  has a new method that provides a streaming interface for decoding a
  JSON document: [`Token`](/pkg/encoding/json/#Decoder.Token). It also
  interoperates with the existing functionality of `Decode`, which will
  continue a decode operation already started with `Decoder.Token`.
- The [`flag`](/pkg/flag/) package has a new function,
  [`UnquoteUsage`](/pkg/flag/#UnquoteUsage), to assist in the creation
  of usage messages using the new convention described above.
- In the [`fmt`](/pkg/fmt/) package, a value of type
  [`Value`](/pkg/reflect/#Value) now prints what it holds, rather than
  use the `reflect.Value`'s `Stringer` method, which produces things
  like `<int Value>`.
- The [`EmptyStmt`](/pkg/ast/#EmptyStmt) type in the
  [`go/ast`](/pkg/go/ast/) package now has a boolean `Implicit` field
  that records whether the semicolon was implicitly added or was present
  in the source.
- For forward compatibility the [`go/build`](/pkg/go/build/) package
  reserves `GOARCH` values for a number of architectures that Go might
  support one day. This is not a promise that it will. Also, the
  [`Package`](/pkg/go/build/#Package) struct now has a `PkgTargetRoot`
  field that stores the architecture-dependent root directory in which
  to install, if known.
- The (newly migrated) [`go/types`](/pkg/go/types/) package allows one
  to control the prefix attached to package-level names using the new
  [`Qualifier`](/pkg/go/types/#Qualifier) function type as an argument
  to several functions. This is an API change for the package, but since
  it is new to the core, it is not breaking the Go 1 compatibility rules
  since code that uses the package must explicitly ask for it at its new
  location. To update, run
  [`go fix`](/cmd/go/#hdr-Run_go_tool_fix_on_packages) on your package.
- In the [`image`](/pkg/image/) package, the
  [`Rectangle`](/pkg/image/#Rectangle) type now implements the
  [`Image`](/pkg/image/#Image) interface, so a `Rectangle` can serve as
  a mask when drawing.
- Also in the [`image`](/pkg/image/) package, to assist in the handling
  of some JPEG images, there is now support for 4:1:1 and 4:1:0 YCbCr
  subsampling and basic CMYK support, represented by the new
  `image.CMYK` struct.
- The [`image/color`](/pkg/image/color/) package adds basic CMYK
  support, through the new [`CMYK`](/pkg/image/color/#CMYK) struct, the
  [`CMYKModel`](/pkg/image/color/#CMYKModel) color model, and the
  [`CMYKToRGB`](/pkg/image/color/#CMYKToRGB) function, as needed by some
  JPEG images.
- Also in the [`image/color`](/pkg/image/color/) package, the conversion
  of a [`YCbCr`](/pkg/image/color/#YCbCr) value to `RGBA` has become
  more precise. Previously, the low 8 bits were just an echo of the high
  8 bits; now they contain more accurate information. Because of the
  echo property of the old code, the operation `uint8(r)` to extract an
  8-bit red value worked, but is incorrect. In Go 1.5, that operation
  may yield a different value. The correct code is, and always was, to
  select the high 8 bits: `uint8(r>>8)`. Incidentally, the `image/draw`
  package provides better support for such conversions; see [this blog
  post](/blog/go-imagedraw-package) for more information.
- Finally, as of Go 1.5 the closest match check in
  [`Index`](/pkg/image/color/#Palette.Index) now honors the alpha
  channel.
- The [`image/gif`](/pkg/image/gif/) package includes a couple of
  generalizations. A multiple-frame GIF file can now have an overall
  bounds different from all the contained single frames' bounds. Also,
  the [`GIF`](/pkg/image/gif/#GIF) struct now has a `Disposal` field
  that specifies the disposal method for each frame.
- The [`io`](/pkg/io/) package adds a
  [`CopyBuffer`](/pkg/io/#CopyBuffer) function that is like
  [`Copy`](/pkg/io/#Copy) but uses a caller-provided buffer, permitting
  control of allocation and buffer size.
- The [`log`](/pkg/log/) package has a new [`LUTC`](/pkg/log/#LUTC) flag
  that causes time stamps to be printed in the UTC time zone. It also
  adds a [`SetOutput`](/pkg/log/#Logger.SetOutput) method for
  user-created loggers.
- In Go 1.4, [`Max`](/pkg/math/#Max) was not detecting all possible NaN
  bit patterns. This is fixed in Go 1.5, so programs that use `math.Max`
  on data including NaNs may behave differently, but now correctly
  according to the IEEE754 definition of NaNs.
- The [`math/big`](/pkg/math/big/) package adds a new
  [`Jacobi`](/pkg/math/big/#Jacobi) function for integers and a new
  [`ModSqrt`](/pkg/math/big/#Int.ModSqrt) method for the
  [`Int`](/pkg/math/big/#Int) type.
- The mime package adds a new [`WordDecoder`](/pkg/mime/#WordDecoder)
  type to decode MIME headers containing RFC 204-encoded words. It also
  provides [`BEncoding`](/pkg/mime/#BEncoding) and
  [`QEncoding`](/pkg/mime/#QEncoding) as implementations of the encoding
  schemes of RFC 2045 and RFC 2047.
- The [`mime`](/pkg/mime/) package also adds an
  [`ExtensionsByType`](/pkg/mime/#ExtensionsByType) function that
  returns the MIME extensions know to be associated with a given MIME
  type.
- There is a new [`mime/quotedprintable`](/pkg/mime/quotedprintable/)
  package that implements the quoted-printable encoding defined by RFC
  2045.
- The [`net`](/pkg/net/) package will now [`Dial`](/pkg/net/#Dial)
  hostnames by trying each IP address in order until one succeeds. The
  [`Dialer`](/pkg/net/#Dialer)`.DualStack` mode now implements Happy
  Eyeballs ([RFC
  6555](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6555){rel="noreferrer"
  target="_blank"}) by giving the first address family a 300ms head
  start; this value can be overridden by the new `Dialer.FallbackDelay`.
- A number of inconsistencies in the types returned by errors in the
  [`net`](/pkg/net/) package have been tidied up. Most now return an
  [`OpError`](/pkg/net/#OpError) value with more information than
  before. Also, the [`OpError`](/pkg/net/#OpError) type now includes a
  `Source` field that holds the local network address.
- The [`net/http`](/pkg/net/http/) package now has support for setting
  trailers from a server [`Handler`](/pkg/net/http/#Handler). For
  details, see the documentation for
  [`ResponseWriter`](/pkg/net/http/#ResponseWriter).
- There is a new method to cancel a [`net/http`](/pkg/net/http/)
  `Request` by setting the new
  [`Request.Cancel`](/pkg/net/http/#Request) field. It is supported by
  `http.Transport`. The `Cancel` field's type is compatible with the
  [`context.Context.Done`](https://godoc.org/golang.org/x/net/context){rel="noreferrer"
  target="_blank"} return value.
- Also in the [`net/http`](/pkg/net/http/) package, there is code to
  ignore the zero [`Time`](/pkg/time/#Time) value in the
  [`ServeContent`](/pkg/net/#ServeContent) function. As of Go 1.5, it
  now also ignores a time value equal to the Unix epoch.
- The [`net/http/fcgi`](/pkg/net/http/fcgi/) package exports two new
  errors, [`ErrConnClosed`](/pkg/net/http/fcgi/#ErrConnClosed) and
  [`ErrRequestAborted`](/pkg/net/http/fcgi/#ErrRequestAborted), to
  report the corresponding error conditions.
- The [`net/http/cgi`](/pkg/net/http/cgi/) package had a bug that
  mishandled the values of the environment variables `REMOTE_ADDR` and
  `REMOTE_HOST`. This has been fixed. Also, starting with Go 1.5 the
  package sets the `REMOTE_PORT` variable.
- The [`net/mail`](/pkg/net/mail/) package adds an
  [`AddressParser`](/pkg/net/mail/#AddressParser) type that can parse
  mail addresses.
- The [`net/smtp`](/pkg/net/smtp/) package now has a
  [`TLSConnectionState`](/pkg/net/smtp/#Client.TLSConnectionState)
  accessor to the [`Client`](/pkg/net/smtp/#Client) type that returns
  the client's TLS state.
- The [`os`](/pkg/os/) package has a new
  [`LookupEnv`](/pkg/os/#LookupEnv) function that is similar to
  [`Getenv`](/pkg/os/#Getenv) but can distinguish between an empty
  environment variable and a missing one.
- The [`os/signal`](/pkg/os/signal/) package adds new
  [`Ignore`](/pkg/os/signal/#Ignore) and
  [`Reset`](/pkg/os/signal/#Reset) functions.
- The [`runtime`](/pkg/runtime/),
  [`runtime/trace`](/pkg/runtime/trace/), and
  [`net/http/pprof`](/pkg/net/http/pprof/) packages each have new
  functions to support the tracing facilities described above:
  [`ReadTrace`](/pkg/runtime/#ReadTrace),
  [`StartTrace`](/pkg/runtime/#StartTrace),
  [`StopTrace`](/pkg/runtime/#StopTrace),
  [`Start`](/pkg/runtime/trace/#Start),
  [`Stop`](/pkg/runtime/trace/#Stop), and
  [`Trace`](/pkg/net/http/pprof/#Trace). See the respective
  documentation for details.
- The [`runtime/pprof`](/pkg/runtime/pprof/) package by default now
  includes overall memory statistics in all memory profiles.
- The [`strings`](/pkg/strings/) package has a new
  [`Compare`](/pkg/strings/#Compare) function. This is present to
  provide symmetry with the [`bytes`](/pkg/bytes/) package but is
  otherwise unnecessary as strings support comparison natively.
- The [`WaitGroup`](/pkg/sync/#WaitGroup) implementation in package
  [`sync`](/pkg/sync/) now diagnoses code that races a call to
  [`Add`](/pkg/sync/#WaitGroup.Add) against a return from
  [`Wait`](/pkg/sync/#WaitGroup.Wait). If it detects this condition, the
  implementation panics.
- In the [`syscall`](/pkg/syscall/) package, the Linux `SysProcAttr`
  struct now has a `GidMappingsEnableSetgroups` field, made necessary by
  security changes in Linux 3.19. On all Unix systems, the struct also
  has new `Foreground` and `Pgid` fields to provide more control when
  exec'ing. On Darwin, there is now a `Syscall9` function to support
  calls with too many arguments.
- The [`testing/quick`](/pkg/testing/quick/) will now generate `nil`
  values for pointer types, making it possible to use with recursive
  data structures. Also, the package now supports generation of array
  types.
- In the [`text/template`](/pkg/text/template/) and
  [`html/template`](/pkg/html/template/) packages, integer constants too
  large to be represented as a Go integer now trigger a parse error.
  Before, they were silently converted to floating point, losing
  precision.
- Also in the [`text/template`](/pkg/text/template/) and
  [`html/template`](/pkg/html/template/) packages, a new
  [`Option`](/pkg/text/template/#Template.Option) method allows
  customization of the behavior of the template during execution. The
  sole implemented option allows control over how a missing key is
  handled when indexing a map. The default, which can now be overridden,
  is as before: to continue with an invalid value.
- The [`time`](/pkg/time/) package's `Time` type has a new method
  [`AppendFormat`](/pkg/time/#Time.AppendFormat), which can be used to
  avoid allocation when printing a time value.
- The [`unicode`](/pkg/unicode/) package and associated support
  throughout the system has been upgraded from version 7.0 to [Unicode
  8.0](https://www.unicode.org/versions/Unicode8.0.0/){rel="noreferrer"
  target="_blank"}.
:::
:::::
