::::: {#main-content .SiteContent .SiteContent--default role="main"}
# Go 1.15 Release Notes

::: {#nav .TOC}
:::

::: markdown
## Introduction to Go 1.15 {#introduction}

The latest Go release, version 1.15, arrives six months after [Go
1.14](go1.14). Most of its changes are in the implementation of the
toolchain, runtime, and libraries. As always, the release maintains the
Go 1 [promise of compatibility](/doc/go1compat.html). We expect almost
all Go programs to continue to compile and run as before.

Go 1.15 includes [substantial improvements to the linker](#linker),
improves [allocation for small objects at high core counts](#runtime),
and deprecates [X.509 CommonName](#commonname). `GOPROXY` now supports
skipping proxies that return errors and a new [embedded tzdata
package](#time/tzdata) has been added.

## Changes to the language {#language}

There are no changes to the language.

## Ports

### Darwin

As [announced](go1.14#darwin) in the Go 1.14 release notes, Go 1.15
requires macOS 10.12 Sierra or later; support for previous versions has
been discontinued.

As [announced](/doc/go1.14#darwin) in the Go 1.14 release notes, Go 1.15
drops support for 32-bit binaries on macOS, iOS, iPadOS, watchOS, and
tvOS (the `darwin/386` and `darwin/arm` ports). Go continues to support
the 64-bit `darwin/amd64` and `darwin/arm64` ports.

### Windows

Go now generates Windows ASLR executables when `-buildmode=pie` cmd/link
flag is provided. Go command uses `-buildmode=pie` by default on
Windows.

The `-race` and `-msan` flags now always enable `-d=checkptr`, which
checks uses of `unsafe.Pointer`. This was previously the case on all
OSes except Windows.

Go-built DLLs no longer cause the process to exit when it receives a
signal (such as Ctrl-C at a terminal).

### Android

When linking binaries for Android, Go 1.15 explicitly selects the `lld`
linker available in recent versions of the NDK. The `lld` linker avoids
crashes on some devices, and is planned to become the default NDK linker
in a future NDK version.

### OpenBSD

Go 1.15 adds support for OpenBSD 6.7 on `GOARCH=arm` and `GOARCH=arm64`.
Previous versions of Go already supported OpenBSD 6.7 on `GOARCH=386`
and `GOARCH=amd64`.

### RISC-V {#riscv}

There has been progress in improving the stability and performance of
the 64-bit RISC-V port on Linux (`GOOS=linux`, `GOARCH=riscv64`). It
also now supports asynchronous preemption.

### 386 {#386}

Go 1.15 is the last release to support x87-only floating-point hardware
(`GO386=387`). Future releases will require at least SSE2 support on
386, raising Go's minimum `GOARCH=386` requirement to the Intel Pentium
4 (released in 2000) or AMD Opteron/Athlon 64 (released in 2003).

## Tools

### Go command

The `GOPROXY` environment variable now supports skipping proxies that
return errors. Proxy URLs may now be separated with either commas (`,`)
or pipe characters (`|`). If a proxy URL is followed by a comma, the
`go` command will only try the next proxy in the list after a 404 or 410
HTTP response. If a proxy URL is followed by a pipe character, the `go`
command will try the next proxy in the list after any error. Note that
the default value of `GOPROXY` remains
`https://proxy.golang.org,direct`, which does not fall back to `direct`
in case of errors.

#### `go` `test`

Changing the `-timeout` flag now invalidates cached test results. A
cached result for a test run with a long timeout will no longer count as
passing when `go` `test` is re-invoked with a short one.

#### Flag parsing {#go-flag-parsing}

Various flag parsing issues in `go` `test` and `go` `vet` have been
fixed. Notably, flags specified in `GOFLAGS` are handled more
consistently, and the `-outputdir` flag now interprets relative paths
relative to the working directory of the `go` command (rather than the
working directory of each individual test).

#### Module cache

The location of the module cache may now be set with the `GOMODCACHE`
environment variable. The default value of `GOMODCACHE` is
`GOPATH[0]/pkg/mod`, the location of the module cache before this
change.

A workaround is now available for Windows "Access is denied" errors in
`go` commands that access the module cache, caused by external programs
concurrently scanning the file system (see [issue
#36568](/issue/36568)). The workaround is not enabled by default because
it is not safe to use when Go versions lower than 1.14.2 and 1.13.10 are
running concurrently with the same module cache. It can be enabled by
explicitly setting the environment variable
`GODEBUG=modcacheunzipinplace=1`.

### Vet

#### New warning for string(x) {#vet-string-int}

The vet tool now warns about conversions of the form `string(x)` where
`x` has an integer type other than `rune` or `byte`. Experience with Go
has shown that many conversions of this form erroneously assume that
`string(x)` evaluates to the string representation of the integer `x`.
It actually evaluates to a string containing the UTF-8 encoding of the
value of `x`. For example, `string(9786)` does not evaluate to the
string `"9786"`; it evaluates to the string `"\xe2\x98\xba"`, or `"☺"`.

Code that is using `string(x)` correctly can be rewritten to
`string(rune(x))`. Or, in some cases, calling `utf8.EncodeRune(buf, x)`
with a suitable byte slice `buf` may be the right solution. Other code
should most likely use `strconv.Itoa` or `fmt.Sprint`.

This new vet check is enabled by default when using `go` `test`.

We are considering prohibiting the conversion in a future release of Go.
That is, the language would change to only permit `string(x)` for
integer `x` when the type of `x` is `rune` or `byte`. Such a language
change would not be backward compatible. We are using this vet check as
a first trial step toward changing the language.

#### New warning for impossible interface conversions {#vet-impossible-interface}

The vet tool now warns about type assertions from one interface type to
another interface type when the type assertion will always fail. This
will happen if both interface types implement a method with the same
name but with a different type signature.

There is no reason to write a type assertion that always fails, so any
code that triggers this vet check should be rewritten.

This new vet check is enabled by default when using `go` `test`.

We are considering prohibiting impossible interface type assertions in a
future release of Go. Such a language change would not be backward
compatible. We are using this vet check as a first trial step toward
changing the language.

## Runtime

If `panic` is invoked with a value whose type is derived from any of:
`bool`, `complex64`, `complex128`, `float32`, `float64`, `int`, `int8`,
`int16`, `int32`, `int64`, `string`, `uint`, `uint8`, `uint16`,
`uint32`, `uint64`, `uintptr`, then the value will be printed, instead
of just its address. Previously, this was only true for values of
exactly these types.

On a Unix system, if the `kill` command or `kill` system call is used to
send a `SIGSEGV`, `SIGBUS`, or `SIGFPE` signal to a Go program, and if
the signal is not being handled via
[`os/signal.Notify`](/pkg/os/signal/#Notify), the Go program will now
reliably crash with a stack trace. In earlier releases the behavior was
unpredictable.

Allocation of small objects now performs much better at high core
counts, and has lower worst-case latency.

Converting a small integer value into an interface value no longer
causes allocation.

Non-blocking receives on closed channels now perform as well as
non-blocking receives on open channels.

## Compiler

Package `unsafe`'s [safety rules](/pkg/unsafe/#Pointer) allow converting
an `unsafe.Pointer` into `uintptr` when calling certain functions.
Previously, in some cases, the compiler allowed multiple chained
conversions (for example, `syscall.Syscall(…,` `uintptr(uintptr(ptr)),`
`…)`). The compiler now requires exactly one conversion. Code that used
multiple conversions should be updated to satisfy the safety rules.

Go 1.15 reduces typical binary sizes by around 5% compared to Go 1.14 by
eliminating certain types of GC metadata and more aggressively
eliminating unused type metadata.

The toolchain now mitigates [Intel CPU erratum
SKX102](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/support/articles/000055650/processors.html){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"} on `GOARCH=amd64` by aligning functions to 32 byte
boundaries and padding jump instructions. While this padding increases
binary sizes, this is more than made up for by the binary size
improvements mentioned above.

Go 1.15 adds a `-spectre` flag to both the compiler and the assembler,
to allow enabling Spectre mitigations. These should almost never be
needed and are provided mainly as a "defense in depth" mechanism. See
the [Spectre wiki page](/wiki/Spectre) for details.

The compiler now rejects `//go:` compiler directives that have no
meaning for the declaration they are applied to with a "misplaced
compiler directive" error. Such misapplied directives were broken
before, but were silently ignored by the compiler.

The compiler's `-json` optimization logging now reports large (\>= 128
byte) copies and includes explanations of escape analysis decisions.

## Linker

This release includes substantial improvements to the Go linker, which
reduce linker resource usage (both time and memory) and improve code
robustness/maintainability.

For a representative set of large Go programs, linking is 20% faster and
requires 30% less memory on average, for `ELF`-based OSes (Linux,
FreeBSD, NetBSD, OpenBSD, Dragonfly, and Solaris) running on `amd64`
architectures, with more modest improvements for other architecture/OS
combinations.

The key contributors to better linker performance are a newly redesigned
object file format, and a revamping of internal phases to increase
concurrency (for example, applying relocations to symbols in parallel).
Object files in Go 1.15 are slightly larger than their 1.14 equivalents.

These changes are part of a multi-release project to [modernize the Go
linker](/s/better-linker), meaning that there will be additional linker
improvements expected in future releases.

The linker now defaults to internal linking mode for `-buildmode=pie` on
`linux/amd64` and `linux/arm64`, so these configurations no longer
require a C linker. External linking mode (which was the default in Go
1.14 for `-buildmode=pie`) can still be requested with
`-ldflags=-linkmode=external` flag.

## Objdump

The [objdump](/cmd/objdump/) tool now supports disassembling in GNU
assembler syntax with the `-gnu` flag.

## Standard library {#library}

### New embedded tzdata package {#time_tzdata}

Go 1.15 includes a new package, [`time/tzdata`](/pkg/time/tzdata/), that
permits embedding the timezone database into a program. Importing this
package (as `import _ "time/tzdata"`) permits the program to find
timezone information even if the timezone database is not available on
the local system. You can also embed the timezone database by building
with `-tags timetzdata`. Either approach increases the size of the
program by about 800 KB.

### Cgo

Go 1.15 will translate the C type `EGLConfig` to the Go type `uintptr`.
This change is similar to how Go 1.12 and newer treats `EGLDisplay`,
Darwin's CoreFoundation and Java's JNI types. See the [cgo
documentation](/cmd/cgo/#hdr-Special_cases) for more information.

In Go 1.15.3 and later, cgo will not permit Go code to allocate an
undefined struct type (a C struct defined as just `struct S;` or
similar) on the stack or heap. Go code will only be permitted to use
pointers to those types. Allocating an instance of such a struct and
passing a pointer, or a full struct value, to C code was always unsafe
and unlikely to work correctly; it is now forbidden. The fix is to
either rewrite the Go code to use only pointers, or to ensure that the
Go code sees the full definition of the struct by including the
appropriate C header file.

### X.509 CommonName deprecation {#commonname}

The deprecated, legacy behavior of treating the `CommonName` field on
X.509 certificates as a host name when no Subject Alternative Names are
present is now disabled by default. It can be temporarily re-enabled by
adding the value `x509ignoreCN=0` to the `GODEBUG` environment variable.

Note that if the `CommonName` is an invalid host name, it's always
ignored, regardless of `GODEBUG` settings. Invalid names include those
with any characters other than letters, digits, hyphens and underscores,
and those with empty labels or trailing dots.

### Minor changes to the library {#minor_library_changes}

As always, there are various minor changes and updates to the library,
made with the Go 1 [promise of compatibility](/doc/go1compat) in mind.

#### [bufio](/pkg/bufio/) {#bufiopkgbufio}

When a [`Scanner`](/pkg/bufio/#Scanner) is used with an invalid
[`io.Reader`](/pkg/io/#Reader) that incorrectly returns a negative
number from `Read`, the `Scanner` will no longer panic, but will instead
return the new error [`ErrBadReadCount`](/pkg/bufio/#ErrBadReadCount).

#### [context](/pkg/context/) {#contextpkgcontext}

Creating a derived `Context` using a nil parent is now explicitly
disallowed. Any attempt to do so with the
[`WithValue`](/pkg/context/#WithValue),
[`WithDeadline`](/pkg/context/#WithDeadline), or
[`WithCancel`](/pkg/context/#WithCancel) functions will cause a panic.

#### [crypto](/pkg/crypto/) {#cryptopkgcrypto}

The `PrivateKey` and `PublicKey` types in the
[`crypto/rsa`](/pkg/crypto/rsa/), [`crypto/ecdsa`](/pkg/crypto/ecdsa/),
and [`crypto/ed25519`](/pkg/crypto/ed25519/) packages now have an
`Equal` method to compare keys for equivalence or to make type-safe
interfaces for public keys. The method signature is compatible with
[`go-cmp`'s definition of
equality](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/google/go-cmp/cmp#Equal){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"}.

[`Hash`](/pkg/crypto/#Hash) now implements
[`fmt.Stringer`](/pkg/fmt/#Stringer).

#### [crypto/ecdsa](/pkg/crypto/ecdsa/) {#cryptoecdsapkgcryptoecdsa}

The new [`SignASN1`](/pkg/crypto/ecdsa/#SignASN1) and
[`VerifyASN1`](/pkg/crypto/ecdsa/#VerifyASN1) functions allow generating
and verifying ECDSA signatures in the standard ASN.1 DER encoding.

#### [crypto/elliptic](/pkg/crypto/elliptic/) {#cryptoellipticpkgcryptoelliptic}

The new [`MarshalCompressed`](/pkg/crypto/elliptic/#MarshalCompressed)
and [`UnmarshalCompressed`](/pkg/crypto/elliptic/#UnmarshalCompressed)
functions allow encoding and decoding NIST elliptic curve points in
compressed format.

#### [crypto/rsa](/pkg/crypto/rsa/) {#cryptorsapkgcryptorsa}

[`VerifyPKCS1v15`](/pkg/crypto/rsa/#VerifyPKCS1v15) now rejects invalid
short signatures with missing leading zeroes, according to RFC 8017.

#### [crypto/tls](/pkg/crypto/tls/) {#cryptotlspkgcryptotls}

The new [`Dialer`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#Dialer) type and its
[`DialContext`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#Dialer.DialContext) method permit using
a context to both connect and handshake with a TLS server.

The new [`VerifyConnection`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#Config.VerifyConnection)
callback on the [`Config`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#Config) type allows custom
verification logic for every connection. It has access to the
[`ConnectionState`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#ConnectionState) which includes
peer certificates, SCTs, and stapled OCSP responses.

Auto-generated session ticket keys are now automatically rotated every
24 hours, with a lifetime of 7 days, to limit their impact on forward
secrecy.

Session ticket lifetimes in TLS 1.2 and earlier, where the session keys
are reused for resumed connections, are now limited to 7 days, also to
limit their impact on forward secrecy.

The client-side downgrade protection checks specified in RFC 8446 are
now enforced. This has the potential to cause connection errors for
clients encountering middleboxes that behave like unauthorized downgrade
attacks.

[`SignatureScheme`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#SignatureScheme),
[`CurveID`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#CurveID), and
[`ClientAuthType`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#ClientAuthType) now implement
[`fmt.Stringer`](/pkg/fmt/#Stringer).

The [`ConnectionState`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#ConnectionState) fields
`OCSPResponse` and `SignedCertificateTimestamps` are now repopulated on
client-side resumed connections.

[`tls.Conn`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#Conn) now returns an opaque error on
permanently broken connections, wrapping the temporary
[`net.Error`](/pkg/net/http/#Error). To access the original `net.Error`,
use [`errors.As`](/pkg/errors/#As) (or
[`errors.Unwrap`](/pkg/errors/#Unwrap)) instead of a type assertion.

#### [crypto/x509](/pkg/crypto/x509/) {#cryptox509pkgcryptox509}

If either the name on the certificate or the name being verified (with
[`VerifyOptions.DNSName`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#VerifyOptions.DNSName) or
[`VerifyHostname`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#Certificate.VerifyHostname)) are
invalid, they will now be compared case-insensitively without further
processing (without honoring wildcards or stripping trailing dots).
Invalid names include those with any characters other than letters,
digits, hyphens and underscores, those with empty labels, and names on
certificates with trailing dots.

The new [`CreateRevocationList`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#CreateRevocationList)
function and [`RevocationList`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#RevocationList) type
allow creating RFC 5280-compliant X.509 v2 Certificate Revocation Lists.

[`CreateCertificate`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#CreateCertificate) now
automatically generates the `SubjectKeyId` if the template is a CA and
doesn't explicitly specify one.

[`CreateCertificate`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#CreateCertificate) now returns
an error if the template specifies `MaxPathLen` but is not a CA.

On Unix systems other than macOS, the `SSL_CERT_DIR` environment
variable can now be a colon-separated list.

On macOS, binaries are now always linked against `Security.framework` to
extract the system trust roots, regardless of whether cgo is available.
The resulting behavior should be more consistent with the OS verifier.

#### [crypto/x509/pkix](/pkg/crypto/x509/pkix/) {#cryptox509pkixpkgcryptox509pkix}

[`Name.String`](/pkg/crypto/x509/pkix/#Name.String) now prints
non-standard attributes from
[`Names`](/pkg/crypto/x509/pkix/#Name.Names) if
[`ExtraNames`](/pkg/crypto/x509/pkix/#Name.ExtraNames) is nil.

#### [database/sql](/pkg/database/sql/) {#databasesqlpkgdatabasesql}

The new
[`DB.SetConnMaxIdleTime`](/pkg/database/sql/#DB.SetConnMaxIdleTime)
method allows removing a connection from the connection pool after it
has been idle for a period of time, without regard to the total lifespan
of the connection. The
[`DBStats.MaxIdleTimeClosed`](/pkg/database/sql/#DBStats.MaxIdleTimeClosed)
field shows the total number of connections closed due to
`DB.SetConnMaxIdleTime`.

The new [`Row.Err`](/pkg/database/sql/#Row.Err) getter allows checking
for query errors without calling `Row.Scan`.

#### [database/sql/driver](/pkg/database/sql/driver/) {#databasesqldriverpkgdatabasesqldriver}

The new [`Validator`](/pkg/database/sql/driver/#Validator) interface may
be implemented by `Conn` to allow drivers to signal if a connection is
valid or if it should be discarded.

#### [debug/pe](/pkg/debug/pe/) {#debugpepkgdebugpe}

The package now defines the `IMAGE_FILE`, `IMAGE_SUBSYSTEM`, and
`IMAGE_DLLCHARACTERISTICS` constants used by the PE file format.

#### [encoding/asn1](/pkg/encoding/asn1/) {#encodingasn1pkgencodingasn1}

[`Marshal`](/pkg/encoding/asn1/#Marshal) now sorts the components of SET
OF according to X.690 DER.

[`Unmarshal`](/pkg/encoding/asn1/#Unmarshal) now rejects tags and Object
Identifiers which are not minimally encoded according to X.690 DER.

#### [encoding/json](/pkg/encoding/json/) {#encodingjsonpkgencodingjson}

The package now has an internal limit to the maximum depth of nesting
when decoding. This reduces the possibility that a deeply nested input
could use large quantities of stack memory, or even cause a "goroutine
stack exceeds limit" panic.

#### [flag](/pkg/flag/) {#flagpkgflag}

When the `flag` package sees `-h` or `-help`, and those flags are not
defined, it now prints a usage message. If the
[`FlagSet`](/pkg/flag/#FlagSet) was created with
[`ExitOnError`](/pkg/flag/#ExitOnError),
[`FlagSet.Parse`](/pkg/flag/#FlagSet.Parse) would then exit with a
status of 2. In this release, the exit status for `-h` or `-help` has
been changed to 0. In particular, this applies to the default handling
of command line flags.

#### [fmt](/pkg/fmt/) {#fmtpkgfmt}

The printing verbs `%#g` and `%#G` now preserve trailing zeros for
floating-point values.

#### [go/format](/pkg/go/format/) {#goformatpkggoformat}

The [`Source`](/pkg/go/format/#Source) and
[`Node`](/pkg/go/format/#Node) functions now canonicalize number literal
prefixes and exponents as part of formatting Go source code. This
matches the behavior of the [`gofmt`](/pkg/cmd/gofmt/) command as it was
implemented [since Go 1.13](/doc/go1.13#gofmt).

#### [html/template](/pkg/html/template/) {#htmltemplatepkghtmltemplate}

The package now uses Unicode escapes (`\uNNNN`) in all JavaScript and
JSON contexts. This fixes escaping errors in `application/ld+json` and
`application/json` contexts.

#### [io/ioutil](/pkg/io/ioutil/) {#ioioutilpkgioioutil}

[`TempDir`](/pkg/io/ioutil/#TempDir) and
[`TempFile`](/pkg/io/ioutil/#TempFile) now reject patterns that contain
path separators. That is, calls such as `ioutil.TempFile("/tmp",`
`"../base*")` will no longer succeed. This prevents unintended directory
traversal.

#### [math/big](/pkg/math/big/) {#mathbigpkgmathbig}

The new [`Int.FillBytes`](/pkg/math/big/#Int.FillBytes) method allows
serializing to fixed-size pre-allocated byte slices.

#### [math/cmplx](/pkg/math/cmplx/) {#mathcmplxpkgmathcmplx}

The functions in this package were updated to conform to the C99
standard (Annex G IEC 60559-compatible complex arithmetic) with respect
to handling of special arguments such as infinity, NaN and signed zero.

#### [net](/pkg/net/) {#netpkgnet}

If an I/O operation exceeds a deadline set by the
[`Conn.SetDeadline`](/pkg/net/#Conn), `Conn.SetReadDeadline`, or
`Conn.SetWriteDeadline` methods, it will now return an error that is or
wraps [`os.ErrDeadlineExceeded`](/pkg/os/#ErrDeadlineExceeded). This may
be used to reliably detect whether an error is due to an exceeded
deadline. Earlier releases recommended calling the `Timeout` method on
the error, but I/O operations can return errors for which `Timeout`
returns `true` although a deadline has not been exceeded.

The new [`Resolver.LookupIP`](/pkg/net/#Resolver.LookupIP) method
supports IP lookups that are both network-specific and accept a context.

#### [net/http](/pkg/net/http/) {#nethttppkgnethttp}

Parsing is now stricter as a hardening measure against request smuggling
attacks: non-ASCII white space is no longer trimmed like SP and HTAB,
and support for the "`identity`" `Transfer-Encoding` was dropped.

#### [net/http/httputil](/pkg/net/http/httputil/) {#nethttphttputilpkgnethttphttputil}

[`ReverseProxy`](/pkg/net/http/httputil/#ReverseProxy) now supports not
modifying the `X-Forwarded-For` header when the incoming
`Request.Header` map entry for that field is `nil`.

When a Switching Protocol (like WebSocket) request handled by
[`ReverseProxy`](/pkg/net/http/httputil/#ReverseProxy) is canceled, the
backend connection is now correctly closed.

#### [net/http/pprof](/pkg/net/http/pprof/) {#nethttppprofpkgnethttppprof}

All profile endpoints now support a "`seconds`" parameter. When present,
the endpoint profiles for the specified number of seconds and reports
the difference. The meaning of the "`seconds`" parameter in the `cpu`
profile and the trace endpoints is unchanged.

#### [net/url](/pkg/net/url/) {#neturlpkgneturl}

The new [`URL`](/pkg/net/url/#URL) field `RawFragment` and method
[`EscapedFragment`](/pkg/net/url/#URL.EscapedFragment) provide detail
about and control over the exact encoding of a particular fragment.
These are analogous to `RawPath` and
[`EscapedPath`](/pkg/net/url/#URL.EscapedPath).

The new [`URL`](/pkg/net/url/#URL) method
[`Redacted`](/pkg/net/url/#URL.Redacted) returns the URL in string form
with any password replaced with `xxxxx`.

#### [os](/pkg/os/) {#ospkgos}

If an I/O operation exceeds a deadline set by the
[`File.SetDeadline`](/pkg/os/#File.SetDeadline),
[`File.SetReadDeadline`](/pkg/os/#File.SetReadDeadline), or
[`File.SetWriteDeadline`](/pkg/os/#File.SetWriteDeadline) methods, it
will now return an error that is or wraps
[`os.ErrDeadlineExceeded`](/pkg/os/#ErrDeadlineExceeded). This may be
used to reliably detect whether an error is due to an exceeded deadline.
Earlier releases recommended calling the `Timeout` method on the error,
but I/O operations can return errors for which `Timeout` returns `true`
although a deadline has not been exceeded.

Packages `os` and `net` now automatically retry system calls that fail
with `EINTR`. Previously this led to spurious failures, which became
more common in Go 1.14 with the addition of asynchronous preemption. Now
this is handled transparently.

The [`os.File`](/pkg/os/#File) type now supports a
[`ReadFrom`](/pkg/os/#File.ReadFrom) method. This permits the use of the
`copy_file_range` system call on some systems when using
[`io.Copy`](/pkg/io/#Copy) to copy data from one `os.File` to another. A
consequence is that [`io.CopyBuffer`](/pkg/io/#CopyBuffer) will not
always use the provided buffer when copying to a `os.File`. If a program
wants to force the use of the provided buffer, it can be done by writing
`io.CopyBuffer(struct{ io.Writer }{dst}, src, buf)`.

#### [plugin](/pkg/plugin/) {#pluginpkgplugin}

DWARF generation is now supported (and enabled by default) for
`-buildmode=plugin` on macOS.

Building with `-buildmode=plugin` is now supported on `freebsd/amd64`.

#### [reflect](/pkg/reflect/) {#reflectpkgreflect}

Package `reflect` now disallows accessing methods of all non-exported
fields, whereas previously it allowed accessing those of non-exported,
embedded fields. Code that relies on the previous behavior should be
updated to instead access the corresponding promoted method of the
enclosing variable.

#### [regexp](/pkg/regexp/) {#regexppkgregexp}

The new [`Regexp.SubexpIndex`](/pkg/regexp/#Regexp.SubexpIndex) method
returns the index of the first subexpression with the given name within
the regular expression.

#### [runtime](/pkg/runtime/) {#runtimepkgruntime}

Several functions, including
[`ReadMemStats`](/pkg/runtime/#ReadMemStats) and
[`GoroutineProfile`](/pkg/runtime/#GoroutineProfile), no longer block if
a garbage collection is in progress.

#### [runtime/pprof](/pkg/runtime/pprof/) {#runtimepprofpkgruntimepprof}

The goroutine profile now includes the profile labels associated with
each goroutine at the time of profiling. This feature is not yet
implemented for the profile reported with `debug=2`.

#### [strconv](/pkg/strconv/) {#strconvpkgstrconv}

[`FormatComplex`](/pkg/strconv/#FormatComplex) and
[`ParseComplex`](/pkg/strconv/#ParseComplex) are added for working with
complex numbers.

[`FormatComplex`](/pkg/strconv/#FormatComplex) converts a complex number
into a string of the form (a+bi), where a and b are the real and
imaginary parts.

[`ParseComplex`](/pkg/strconv/#ParseComplex) converts a string into a
complex number of a specified precision. `ParseComplex` accepts complex
numbers in the format `N+Ni`.

#### [sync](/pkg/sync/) {#syncpkgsync}

The new method [`Map.LoadAndDelete`](/pkg/sync/#Map.LoadAndDelete)
atomically deletes a key and returns the previous value if present.

The method [`Map.Delete`](/pkg/sync/#Map.Delete) is more efficient.

#### [syscall](/pkg/syscall/) {#syscallpkgsyscall}

On Unix systems, functions that use
[`SysProcAttr`](/pkg/syscall/#SysProcAttr) will now reject attempts to
set both the `Setctty` and `Foreground` fields, as they both use the
`Ctty` field but do so in incompatible ways. We expect that few existing
programs set both fields.

Setting the `Setctty` field now requires that the `Ctty` field be set to
a file descriptor number in the child process, as determined by the
`ProcAttr.Files` field. Using a child descriptor always worked, but
there were certain cases where using a parent file descriptor also
happened to work. Some programs that set `Setctty` will need to change
the value of `Ctty` to use a child descriptor number.

It is [now possible](/pkg/syscall/#Proc.Call) to call system calls that
return floating point values on `windows/amd64`.

#### [testing](/pkg/testing/) {#testingpkgtesting}

The `testing.T` type now has a [`Deadline`](/pkg/testing/#T.Deadline)
method that reports the time at which the test binary will have exceeded
its timeout.

A `TestMain` function is no longer required to call `os.Exit`. If a
`TestMain` function returns, the test binary will call `os.Exit` with
the value returned by `m.Run`.

The new methods [`T.TempDir`](/pkg/testing/#T.TempDir) and
[`B.TempDir`](/pkg/testing/#B.TempDir) return temporary directories that
are automatically cleaned up at the end of the test.

`go` `test` `-v` now groups output by test name, rather than printing
the test name on each line.

#### [text/template](/pkg/text/template/) {#texttemplatepkgtexttemplate}

[`JSEscape`](/pkg/text/template/#JSEscape) now consistently uses Unicode
escapes (`\u00XX`), which are compatible with JSON.

#### [time](/pkg/time/) {#timepkgtime}

The new method [`Ticker.Reset`](/pkg/time/#Ticker.Reset) supports
changing the duration of a ticker.

When returning an error, [`ParseDuration`](/pkg/time/#ParseDuration) now
quotes the original value.
:::
:::::
