::::: {#main-content .SiteContent .SiteContent--default role="main"}
# Go 1.23 Release Notes

::: {#nav .TOC}
:::

::: markdown
## Introduction to Go 1.23 {#introduction}

The latest Go release, version 1.23, arrives six months after [Go
1.22](/doc/go1.22). Most of its changes are in the implementation of the
toolchain, runtime, and libraries. As always, the release maintains the
Go 1 [promise of compatibility](/doc/go1compat). We expect almost all Go
programs to continue to compile and run as before.

## Changes to the language {#language}

The "range" clause in a "for-range" loop now accepts iterator functions
of the following types

    func(func() bool)
    func(func(K) bool)
    func(func(K, V) bool)

as range expressions. Calls of the iterator argument function produce
the iteration values for the "for-range" loop. For details see the
[`iter`](/pkg/iter) package documentation, the [language
spec](/ref/spec#For_range), and the [Range over Function Types blog
post](/blog/range-functions). For motivation see the 2022
["range-over-func" discussion](/issue/56413).

Go 1.23 includes preview support for [generic type
aliases](/issue/46477). Building the toolchain with
`GOEXPERIMENT=aliastypeparams` enables this feature within a package.
(Using generic alias types across package boundaries is not yet
supported.)

## Tools

### Telemetry

Starting in Go 1.23, the Go toolchain can collect usage and breakage
statistics that help the Go team understand how the Go toolchain is used
and how well it is working. We refer to these statistics as [Go
telemetry](/doc/telemetry).

Go telemetry is an *opt-in system*, controlled by the [`go` `telemetry`
command](/cmd/go/#hdr-Manage_telemetry_data_and_settings). By default,
the toolchain programs collect statistics in counter files that can be
inspected locally but are otherwise unused (`go` `telemetry` `local`).

To help us keep Go working well and understand Go usage, please consider
opting in to Go telemetry by running `go` `telemetry` `on`. In that
mode, anonymous counter reports are uploaded to
[telemetry.go.dev](https://telemetry.go.dev){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"} weekly, where they are aggregated into graphs and also
made available for download by any Go contributors or users wanting to
analyze the data. See "[Go Telemetry](/doc/telemetry)" for more details
about the Go Telemetry system.

### Go command

Setting the `GOROOT_FINAL` environment variable no longer has an effect
([#62047](/issue/62047)). Distributions that install the `go` command to
a location other than `$GOROOT/bin/go` should install a symlink instead
of relocating or copying the `go` binary.

The new `go` `env` `-changed` flag causes the command to print only
those settings whose effective value differs from the default value that
would be obtained in an empty environment with no prior uses of the `-w`
flag.

The new `go` `mod` `tidy` `-diff` flag causes the command not to modify
the files but instead print the necessary changes as a unified diff. It
exits with a non-zero code if updates are needed.

The `go` `list` `-m` `-json` command now includes new `Sum` and
`GoModSum` fields. This is similar to the existing behavior of the `go`
`mod` `download` `-json` command.

The new `godebug` directive in `go.mod` and `go.work` declares a
[GODEBUG setting](/doc/godebug) to apply for the work module or
workspace in use.

### Vet

The `go vet` subcommand now includes the
[stdversion](https://pkg.go.dev/golang.org/x/tools/go/analysis/passes/stdversion){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"} analyzer, which flags references to symbols that are
too new for the version of Go in effect in the referring file. (The
effective version is determined by the `go` directive in the file's
enclosing `go.mod` file, and by any [`//go:build`
constraints](/cmd/go#hdr-Build_constraints) in the file.)

For example, it will report a diagnostic for a reference to the
`reflect.TypeFor` function (introduced in go1.22) from a file in a
module whose go.mod file specifies `go 1.21`.

### Cgo

[`cmd/cgo`](/pkg/cmd/cgo) supports the new `-ldflags` flag for passing
flags to the C linker. The `go` command uses it automatically, avoiding
"argument list too long" errors with a very large `CGO_LDFLAGS`.

### Trace

The `trace` tool now better tolerates partially broken traces by
attempting to recover what trace data it can. This functionality is
particularly helpful when viewing a trace that was collected during a
program crash, since the trace data leading up to the crash will now [be
recoverable](/issue/65319) under most circumstances.

## Runtime

The traceback printed by the runtime after an unhandled panic or other
fatal error now indents the second and subsequent lines of the error
message (for example, the argument to panic) by a single tab, so that it
can be unambiguously distinguished from the stack trace of the first
goroutine. See [#64590](/issue/64590) for discussion.

## Compiler

The build time overhead to building with [Profile Guided
Optimization](/doc/pgo) has been reduced significantly. Previously,
large builds could see 100%+ build time increase from enabling PGO. In
Go 1.23, overhead should be in the single digit percentages.

The compiler in Go 1.23 can now overlap the stack frame slots of local
variables accessed in disjoint regions of a function, which reduces
stack usage for Go applications.

For 386 and amd64, the compiler will use information from PGO to align
certain hot blocks in loops. This improves performance an additional
1-1.5% at a cost of an additional 0.1% text and binary size. This is
currently only implemented on 386 and amd64 because it has not shown an
improvement on other platforms. Hot block alignment can be disabled with
`-gcflags=[<packages>=]-d=alignhot=0`.

## Linker

The linker now disallows using a `//go:linkname` directive to refer to
internal symbols in the standard library (including the runtime) that
are not marked with `//go:linkname` on their definitions. Similarly, the
linker disallows references to such symbols from assembly code. For
backward compatibility, existing usages of `//go:linkname` found in a
large open-source code corpus remain supported. Any new references to
standard library internal symbols will be disallowed.

A linker command line flag `-checklinkname=0` can be used to disable
this check, for debugging and experimenting purposes.

When building a dynamically linked ELF binary (including PIE binary),
the new `-bindnow` flag enables immediate function binding.

## Standard library {#library}

### Timer changes

Go 1.23 makes two significant changes to the implementation of
[`time.Timer`](/pkg/time#Timer) and [`time.Ticker`](/pkg/time#Ticker).

First, `Timer`s and `Ticker`s that are no longer referred to by the
program become eligible for garbage collection immediately, even if
their `Stop` methods have not been called. Earlier versions of Go did
not collect unstopped `Timer`s until after they had fired and never
collected unstopped `Ticker`s.

Second, the timer channel associated with a `Timer` or `Ticker` is now
unbuffered, with capacity 0. The main effect of this change is that Go
now guarantees that for any call to a `Reset` or `Stop` method, no stale
values prepared before that call will be sent or received after the
call. Earlier versions of Go used channels with a one-element buffer,
making it difficult to use `Reset` and `Stop` correctly. A visible
effect of this change is that `len` and `cap` of timer channels now
returns 0 instead of 1, which may affect programs that poll the length
to decide whether a receive on the timer channel will succeed. Such code
should use a non-blocking receive instead.

These new behaviors are only enabled when the main Go program is in a
module with a `go.mod` `go` line using Go 1.23.0 or later. When Go 1.23
builds older programs, the old behaviors remain in effect. The new
[GODEBUG setting](/doc/godebug)
[`asynctimerchan=1`](/pkg/time/#NewTimer) can be used to revert back to
asynchronous channel behaviors even when a program names Go 1.23.0 or
later in its `go.mod` file.

### New unique package

The new [`unique`](/pkg/unique) package provides facilities for
canonicalizing values (like "interning" or "hash-consing").

Any value of comparable type may be canonicalized with the new `Make[T]`
function, which produces a reference to a canonical copy of the value in
the form of a `Handle[T]`. Two `Handle[T]` are equal if and only if the
values used to produce the handles are equal, allowing programs to
deduplicate values and reduce their memory footprint. Comparing two
`Handle[T]` values is efficient, reducing down to a simple pointer
comparison.

### Iterators

The new [`iter`](/pkg/iter) package provides the basic definitions for
working with user-defined iterators.

The [`slices`](/pkg/slices) package adds several functions that work
with iterators:

- [All](/pkg/slices#All) returns an iterator over slice indexes and
  values.
- [Values](/pkg/slices#Values) returns an iterator over slice elements.
- [Backward](/pkg/slices#Backward) returns an iterator that loops over a
  slice backward.
- [Collect](/pkg/slices#Collect) collects values from an iterator into a
  new slice.
- [AppendSeq](/pkg/slices#AppendSeq) appends values from an iterator to
  an existing slice.
- [Sorted](/pkg/slices#Sorted) collects values from an iterator into a
  new slice, and then sorts the slice.
- [SortedFunc](/pkg/slices#SortedFunc) is like `Sorted` but with a
  comparison function.
- [SortedStableFunc](/pkg/slices#SortedStableFunc) is like `SortFunc`
  but uses a stable sort algorithm.
- [Chunk](/pkg/slices#Chunk) returns an iterator over consecutive
  sub-slices of up to n elements of a slice.

The [`maps`](/pkg/maps) package adds several functions that work with
iterators:

- [All](/pkg/maps#All) returns an iterator over key-value pairs from a
  map.
- [Keys](/pkg/maps#Keys) returns an iterator over keys in a map.
- [Values](/pkg/maps#Values) returns an iterator over values in a map.
- [Insert](/pkg/maps#Insert) adds the key-value pairs from an iterator
  to an existing map.
- [Collect](/pkg/maps#Collect) collects key-value pairs from an iterator
  into a new map and returns it.

### New structs package

The new [`structs`](/pkg/structs) package provides types for struct
fields that modify properties of the containing struct type such as
memory layout.

In this release, the only such type is
[`HostLayout`](/pkg/structs#HostLayout) which indicates that a structure
with a field of that type has a layout that conforms to host platform
expectations. HostLayout should be used in types that are passed to,
returned from, or accessed via a pointer passed to/from host APIs.
Without this marker, struct layout order is not guaranteed by the
language spec, though as of Go 1.23 the host and language layouts happen
to match.

### Minor changes to the library {#minor_library_changes}

#### [`archive/tar`](/pkg/archive/tar/) {#archivetarpkgarchivetar}

If the argument to [`FileInfoHeader`](/pkg/archive/tar#FileInfoHeader)
implements the new [`FileInfoNames`](/pkg/archive/tar#FileInfoNames)
interface, then the interface methods will be used to set the
Uname/Gname of the file header. This allows applications to override the
system-dependent Uname/Gname lookup.

#### [`crypto/tls`](/pkg/crypto/tls/) {#cryptotlspkgcryptotls}

The TLS client now supports the Encrypted Client Hello [draft
specification](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-ietf-tls-esni-18.html){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"}. This feature can be enabled by setting the
[`Config.EncryptedClientHelloConfigList`](/pkg/crypto/tls#Config.EncryptedClientHelloConfigList)
field to an encoded ECHConfigList for the host that is being connected
to.

The [`QUICConn`](/pkg/crypto/tls#QUICConn) type used by QUIC
implementations includes new events reporting on the state of session
resumption, and provides a way for the QUIC layer to add data to session
tickets and session cache entries.

3DES cipher suites were removed from the default list used when
[`Config.CipherSuites`](/pkg/crypto/tls#Config.CipherSuites) is nil. The
default can be reverted by adding `tls3des=1` to the GODEBUG environment
variable.

The experimental post-quantum key exchange mechanism
X25519Kyber768Draft00 is now enabled by default when
[`Config.CurvePreferences`](/pkg/crypto/tls#Config.CurvePreferences) is
nil. The default can be reverted by adding `tlskyber=0` to the GODEBUG
environment variable. This can be useful when dealing with buggy TLS
servers that do not handle large records correctly, causing a timeout
during the handshake (see [TLS post-quantum TL;DR
fail](https://tldr.fail/){rel="noreferrer" target="_blank"}).

Go 1.23 changed the behavior of
[`X509KeyPair`](/pkg/crypto/tls#X509KeyPair) and
[`LoadX509KeyPair`](/pkg/crypto/tls#LoadX509KeyPair) to populate the
[`Certificate.Leaf`](/pkg/crypto/tls#Certificate.Leaf) field of the
returned [`Certificate`](/pkg/crypto/tls#Certificate). The new
`x509keypairleaf` [GODEBUG setting](/doc/godebug) is added for this
behavior.

#### [`crypto/x509`](/pkg/crypto/x509/) {#cryptox509pkgcryptox509}

[`CreateCertificateRequest`](/pkg/crypto/x509#CreateCertificateRequest)
now correctly supports RSA-PSS signature algorithms.

[`CreateCertificateRequest`](/pkg/crypto/x509#CreateCertificateRequest)
and [`CreateRevocationList`](/pkg/crypto/x509#CreateRevocationList) now
verify the generated signature using the signer's public key. If the
signature is invalid, an error is returned. This has been the behavior
of [`CreateCertificate`](/pkg/crypto/x509#CreateCertificate) since Go
1.16.

The [`x509sha1` GODEBUG
setting](/pkg/crypto/x509#InsecureAlgorithmError) will be removed in the
next Go major release (Go 1.24). This will mean that `crypto/x509` will
no longer support verifying signatures on certificates that use SHA-1
based signature algorithms.

The new [`ParseOID`](/pkg/crypto/x509#ParseOID) function parses a
dot-encoded ASN.1 Object Identifier string. The
[`OID`](/pkg/crypto/x509#OID) type now implements the
[`encoding.BinaryMarshaler`](/pkg/encoding#BinaryMarshaler),
[`encoding.BinaryUnmarshaler`](/pkg/encoding#BinaryUnmarshaler),
[`encoding.TextMarshaler`](/pkg/encoding#TextMarshaler),
[`encoding.TextUnmarshaler`](/pkg/encoding#TextUnmarshaler) interfaces.

#### [`database/sql`](/pkg/database/sql/) {#databasesqlpkgdatabasesql}

Errors returned by [`driver.Valuer`](/pkg/driver#Valuer) implementations
are now wrapped for improved error handling during operations like
[`DB.Query`](/pkg/database/sql#DB.Query),
[`DB.Exec`](/pkg/database/sql#DB.Exec), and
[`DB.QueryRow`](/pkg/database/sql#DB.QueryRow).

#### [`debug/elf`](/pkg/debug/elf/) {#debugelfpkgdebugelf}

The `debug/elf` package now defines
[`PT_OPENBSD_NOBTCFI`](/pkg/debug/elf#PT_OPENBSD_NOBTCFI). This
[`ProgType`](/pkg/debug/elf#ProgType) is used to disable Branch Tracking
Control Flow Integrity (BTCFI) enforcement on OpenBSD binaries.

Now defines the symbol type constants
[`STT_RELC`](/pkg/debug/elf#STT_RELC),
[`STT_SRELC`](/pkg/debug/elf#STT_SRELC), and
[`STT_GNU_IFUNC`](/pkg/debug/elf#STT_GNU_IFUNC).

#### [`encoding/binary`](/pkg/encoding/binary/) {#encodingbinarypkgencodingbinary}

The new [`Encode`](/pkg/encoding/binary#Encode) and
[`Decode`](/pkg/encoding/binary#Decode) functions are byte slice
equivalents to [`Read`](/pkg/encoding/binary#Read) and
[`Write`](/pkg/encoding/binary#Write).
[`Append`](/pkg/encoding/binary#Append) allows marshaling multiple data
into the same byte slice.

#### [`go/ast`](/pkg/go/ast/) {#goastpkggoast}

The new [`Preorder`](/pkg/go/ast#Preorder) function returns a convenient
iterator over all the nodes of a syntax tree.

#### [`go/types`](/pkg/go/types/) {#gotypespkggotypes}

The [`Func`](/pkg/go/types#Func) type, which represents a function or
method symbol, now has a
[`Func.Signature`](/pkg/go/types#Func.Signature) method that returns the
function's type, which is always a `Signature`.

The [`Alias`](/pkg/go/types#Alias) type now has an
[`Rhs`](/pkg/go/types#Rhs) method that returns the type on the
right-hand side of its declaration: given `type A = B`, the `Rhs` of A
is B. ([#66559](/issue/66559))

The methods [`Alias.Origin`](/pkg/go/types#Alias.Origin),
[`Alias.SetTypeParams`](/pkg/go/types#Alias.SetTypeParams),
[`Alias.TypeParams`](/pkg/go/types#Alias.TypeParams), and
[`Alias.TypeArgs`](/pkg/go/types#Alias.TypeArgs) have been added. They
are needed for generic alias types.

By default, go/types now produces [`Alias`](/pkg/go/types#Alias) type
nodes for type aliases. This behavior can be controlled by the `GODEBUG`
`gotypesalias` flag. Its default has changed from 0 in Go 1.22 to 1 in
Go 1.23.

#### [`math/rand/v2`](/pkg/math/rand/v2/) {#mathrandv2pkgmathrandv2}

The [`Uint`](/pkg/math/rand/v2#Uint) function and
[`Rand.Uint`](/pkg/math/rand/v2#Rand.Uint) method have been added. They
were inadvertently left out of Go 1.22.

The new [`ChaCha8.Read`](/pkg/math/rand/v2#ChaCha8.Read) method
implements the [`io.Reader`](/pkg/io#Reader) interface.

#### [`net`](/pkg/net/) {#netpkgnet}

The new type [`KeepAliveConfig`](/pkg/net#KeepAliveConfig) permits
fine-tuning the keep-alive options for TCP connections, via a new
[`TCPConn.SetKeepAliveConfig`](/pkg/net#TCPConn.SetKeepAliveConfig)
method and new KeepAliveConfig fields for [`Dialer`](/pkg/net#Dialer)
and [`ListenConfig`](/pkg/net#ListenConfig).

The [`DNSError`](/pkg/net#DNSError) type now wraps errors caused by
timeouts or cancellation. For example,
`errors.Is(someDNSErr, context.DeadlineExceedeed)` will now report
whether a DNS error was caused by a timeout.

The new `GODEBUG` setting `netedns0=0` disables sending EDNS0 additional
headers on DNS requests, as they reportedly break the DNS server on some
modems.

#### [`net/http`](/pkg/net/http/) {#nethttppkgnethttp}

[`Cookie`](/pkg/net/http#Cookie) now preserves double quotes surrounding
a cookie value. The new [`Cookie.Quoted`](/pkg/net/http#Cookie.Quoted)
field indicates whether the [`Cookie.Value`](/pkg/net/http#Cookie.Value)
was originally quoted.

The new [`Request.CookiesNamed`](/pkg/net/http#Request.CookiesNamed)
method retrieves all cookies that match the given name.

The new [`Cookie.Partitioned`](/pkg/net/http#Cookie.Partitioned) field
identifies cookies with the Partitioned attribute.

The patterns used by [`ServeMux`](/pkg/net/http#ServeMux) now allow one
or more spaces or tabs after the method name. Previously, only a single
space was permitted.

The new [`ParseCookie`](/pkg/net/http#ParseCookie) function parses a
Cookie header value and returns all the cookies which were set in it.
Since the same cookie name can appear multiple times the returned Values
can contain more than one value for a given key.

The new [`ParseSetCookie`](/pkg/net/http#ParseSetCookie) function parses
a Set-Cookie header value and returns a cookie. It returns an error on
syntax error.

[`ServeContent`](/pkg/net/http#ServeContent),
[`ServeFile`](/pkg/net/http#ServeFile), and
[`ServeFileFS`](/pkg/net/http#ServeFileFS) now remove the
`Cache-Control`, `Content-Encoding`, `Etag`, and `Last-Modified` headers
when serving an error. These headers usually apply to the non-error
content, but not to the text of errors.

Middleware which wraps a
[`ResponseWriter`](/pkg/net/http#ResponseWriter) and applies on-the-fly
encoding, such as `Content-Encoding: gzip`, will not function after this
change. The previous behavior of
[`ServeContent`](/pkg/net/http#ServeContent),
[`ServeFile`](/pkg/net/http#ServeFile), and
[`ServeFileFS`](/pkg/net/http#ServeFileFS) may be restored by setting
`GODEBUG=httpservecontentkeepheaders=1`.

Note that middleware which changes the size of the served content (such
as by compressing it) already does not function properly when
[`ServeContent`](/pkg/net/http#ServeContent) handles a Range request.
On-the-fly compression should use the `Transfer-Encoding` header instead
of `Content-Encoding`.

For inbound requests, the new
[`Request.Pattern`](/pkg/net/http#Request.Pattern) field contains the
[`ServeMux`](/pkg/net/http#ServeMux) pattern (if any) that matched the
request. This field is not set when `GODEBUG=httpmuxgo121=1` is set.

#### [`net/http/httptest`](/pkg/net/http/httptest/) {#nethttphttptestpkgnethttphttptest}

The new
[`NewRequestWithContext`](/pkg/net/http/httptest#NewRequestWithContext)
method creates an incoming request with a
[`context.Context`](/pkg/context#Context).

#### [`net/netip`](/pkg/net/netip/) {#netnetippkgnetnetip}

In Go 1.22 and earlier, using
[`reflect.DeepEqual`](/pkg/reflect#DeepEqual) to compare an
[`Addr`](/pkg/net/netip#Addr) holding an IPv4 address to one holding the
IPv4-mapped IPv6 form of that address incorrectly returned true, even
though the `Addr` values were different when comparing with `==` or
[`Addr.Compare`](/pkg/net/netip#Addr.Compare). This bug is now fixed and
all three approaches now report the same result.

#### [`os`](/pkg/os/) {#ospkgos}

The [`Stat`](/pkg/os#Stat) function now sets the
[`ModeSocket`](/pkg/os#ModeSocket) bit for files that are Unix sockets
on Windows. These files are identified by having a reparse tag set to
`IO_REPARSE_TAG_AF_UNIX`.

On Windows, the mode bits reported by [`Lstat`](/pkg/os#Lstat) and
[`Stat`](/pkg/os#Stat) for reparse points changed. Mount points no
longer have [`ModeSymlink`](/pkg/os#ModeSymlink) set, and reparse points
that are not symlinks, Unix sockets, or dedup files now always have
[`ModeIrregular`](/pkg/os#ModeIrregular) set. This behavior is
controlled by the `winsymlink` setting. For Go 1.23, it defaults to
`winsymlink=1`. Previous versions default to `winsymlink=0`.

The [`CopyFS`](/pkg/os#CopyFS) function copies an
[`io/fs.FS`](/pkg/io/fs#FS) into the local filesystem.

On Windows, [`Readlink`](/pkg/os#Readlink) no longer tries to normalize
volumes to drive letters, which was not always even possible. This
behavior is controlled by the `winreadlinkvolume` setting. For Go 1.23,
it defaults to `winreadlinkvolume=1`. Previous versions default to
`winreadlinkvolume=0`.

On Linux with pidfd support (generally Linux v5.4+),
[`Process`](/pkg/os#Process)-related functions and methods use pidfd
(rather than PID) internally, eliminating potential mistargeting when a
PID is reused by the OS. Pidfd support is fully transparent to a user,
except for additional process file descriptors that a process may have.

#### [`path/filepath`](/pkg/path/filepath/) {#pathfilepathpkgpathfilepath}

The new [`Localize`](/pkg/path/filepath#Localize) function safely
converts a slash-separated path into an operating system path.

On Windows, [`EvalSymlinks`](/pkg/path/filepath#EvalSymlinks) no longer
evaluates mount points, which was a source of many inconsistencies and
bugs. This behavior is controlled by the `winsymlink` setting. For Go
1.23, it defaults to `winsymlink=1`. Previous versions default to
`winsymlink=0`.

On Windows, [`EvalSymlinks`](/pkg/path/filepath#EvalSymlinks) no longer
tries to normalize volumes to drive letters, which was not always even
possible. This behavior is controlled by the `winreadlinkvolume`
setting. For Go 1.23, it defaults to `winreadlinkvolume=1`. Previous
versions default to `winreadlinkvolume=0`.

#### [`reflect`](/pkg/reflect/) {#reflectpkgreflect}

The new methods synonymous with the methods of the same name in
[`Value`](/pkg/reflect#Value) are added to [`Type`](/pkg/reflect#Type):

1.  [`Type.OverflowComplex`](/pkg/reflect#Type.OverflowComplex)
2.  [`Type.OverflowFloat`](/pkg/reflect#Type.OverflowFloat)
3.  [`Type.OverflowInt`](/pkg/reflect#Type.OverflowInt)
4.  [`Type.OverflowUint`](/pkg/reflect#Type.OverflowUint)

The new [`SliceAt`](/pkg/reflect#SliceAt) function is analogous to
[`NewAt`](/pkg/reflect#NewAt), but for slices.

The [`Value.Pointer`](/pkg/reflect#Value.Pointer) and
[`Value.UnsafePointer`](/pkg/reflect#Value.UnsafePointer) methods now
support values of kind [`String`](/pkg/reflect#String).

The new methods [`Value.Seq`](/pkg/reflect#Value.Seq) and
[`Value.Seq2`](/pkg/reflect#Value.Seq2) return sequences that iterate
over the value as though it were used in a for/range loop. The new
methods [`Type.CanSeq`](/pkg/reflect#Type.CanSeq) and
[`Type.CanSeq2`](/pkg/reflect#Type.CanSeq2) report whether calling
[`Value.Seq`](/pkg/reflect#Value.Seq) and
[`Value.Seq2`](/pkg/reflect#Value.Seq2), respectively, will succeed
without panicking.

#### [`runtime/debug`](/pkg/runtime/debug/) {#runtimedebugpkgruntimedebug}

The [`SetCrashOutput`](/pkg/runtime/debug#SetCrashOutput) function
allows the user to specify an alternate file to which the runtime should
write its fatal crash report. It may be used to construct an automated
reporting mechanism for all unexpected crashes, not just those in
goroutines that explicitly use `recover`.

#### [`runtime/pprof`](/pkg/runtime/pprof/) {#runtimepprofpkgruntimepprof}

The maximum stack depth for `alloc`, `mutex`, `block`, `threadcreate`
and `goroutine` profiles has been raised from 32 to 128 frames.

#### [`runtime/trace`](/pkg/runtime/trace/) {#runtimetracepkgruntimetrace}

The runtime now explicitly flushes trace data when a program crashes due
to an uncaught panic. This means that more complete trace data will be
available in a trace if the program crashes while tracing is active.

#### [`slices`](/pkg/slices/) {#slicespkgslices}

The [`Repeat`](/pkg/slices#Repeat) function returns a new slice that
repeats the provided slice the given number of times.

#### [`sync`](/pkg/sync/) {#syncpkgsync}

The [`Map.Clear`](/pkg/sync#Map.Clear) method deletes all the entries,
resulting in an empty [`Map`](/pkg/sync#Map). It is analogous to
`clear`.

#### [`sync/atomic`](/pkg/sync/atomic/) {#syncatomicpkgsyncatomic}

The new [`And`](/pkg/sync/atomic#And) and [`Or`](/pkg/sync/atomic#Or)
operators apply a bitwise `AND` or `OR` to the given input, returning
the old value.

#### [`syscall`](/pkg/syscall/) {#syscallpkgsyscall}

The syscall package now defines
[`WSAENOPROTOOPT`](/pkg/syscall#WSAENOPROTOOPT) on Windows.

The [`GetsockoptInt`](/pkg/syscall#GetsockoptInt) function is now
supported on Windows.

#### [`testing/fstest`](/pkg/testing/fstest/) {#testingfstestpkgtestingfstest}

[`TestFS`](/pkg/testing/fstest#TestFS) now returns a structured error
that can be unwrapped (via method `Unwrap() []error`). This allows
inspecting errors using [`errors.Is`](/pkg/errors#Is) or
[`errors.As`](/pkg/errors#As).

#### [`text/template`](/pkg/text/template/) {#texttemplatepkgtexttemplate}

Templates now support the new "else with" action, which reduces template
complexity in some use cases.

#### [`time`](/pkg/time/) {#timepkgtime}

[`Parse`](/pkg/time#Parse) and
[`ParseInLocation`](/pkg/time#ParseInLocation) now return an error if
the time zone offset is out of range.

On Windows, [`Timer`](/pkg/time#Timer), [`Ticker`](/pkg/time#Ticker),
and functions that put the goroutine to sleep, such as
[`Sleep`](/pkg/time#Sleep), got their time resolution improved to 0.5ms
instead of 15.6ms.

#### [`unicode/utf16`](/pkg/unicode/utf16/) {#unicodeutf16pkgunicodeutf16}

The [`RuneLen`](/pkg/unicode/utf16#RuneLen) function returns the number
of 16-bit words in the UTF-16 encoding of the rune. It returns -1 if the
rune is not a valid value to encode in UTF-16.

## Ports

### Darwin

As [announced](go1.22#darwin) in the Go 1.22 release notes, Go 1.23
requires macOS 11 Big Sur or later; support for previous versions has
been discontinued.

### Linux

Go 1.23 is the last release that requires Linux kernel version 2.6.32 or
later. Go 1.24 will require Linux kernel version 3.2 or later.

### OpenBSD

Go 1.23 adds experimental support for OpenBSD on 64-bit RISC-V
(`GOOS=openbsd`, `GOARCH=riscv64`).

### ARM64

Go 1.23 introduces a new `GOARM64` environment variable, which specifies
the minimum target version of the ARM64 architecture at compile time.
Allowed values are `v8.{0-9}` and `v9.{0-5}`. This may be followed by an
option specifying extensions implemented by target hardware. Valid
options are `,lse` and `,crypto`.

The `GOARM64` environment variable defaults to `v8.0`.

### RISC-V {#riscv}

Go 1.23 introduces a new `GORISCV64` environment variable, which selects
the [RISC-V user-mode application
profile](https://github.com/riscv/riscv-profiles/blob/main/src/profiles.adoc){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"} for which to compile. Allowed values are `rva20u64` and
`rva22u64`.

The `GORISCV64` environment variable defaults to `rva20u64`.

### Wasm

The `go_wasip1_wasm_exec` script in `GOROOT/misc/wasm` has dropped
support for versions of `wasmtime` \< 14.0.0.
:::
:::::
