::::: {#main-content .SiteContent .SiteContent--default role="main"}
# Go 1.9 Release Notes

::: {#nav .TOC}
:::

::: markdown
## Introduction to Go 1.9 {#introduction}

The latest Go release, version 1.9, arrives six months after [Go
1.8](go1.8) and is the tenth release in the [Go 1.x
series](/doc/devel/release.html). There are two [changes to the
language](#language): adding support for type aliases and defining when
implementations may fuse floating point operations. Most of the changes
are in the implementation of the toolchain, runtime, and libraries. As
always, the release maintains the Go 1 [promise of
compatibility](/doc/go1compat.html). We expect almost all Go programs to
continue to compile and run as before.

The release adds [transparent monotonic time support](#monotonic-time),
[parallelizes compilation of functions](#parallel-compile) within a
package, better supports [test helper functions](#test-helper), includes
a new [bit manipulation package](#math-bits), and has a new [concurrent
map type](#sync-map).

## Changes to the language {#language}

There are two changes to the language.

Go now supports type aliases to support gradual code repair while moving
a type between packages. The [type alias design
document](/design/18130-type-alias) and [an article on
refactoring](/talks/2016/refactor.article) cover the problem in detail.
In short, a type alias declaration has the form:

    type T1 = T2

This declaration introduces an alias name `T1`---an alternate
spelling---for the type denoted by `T2`; that is, both `T1` and `T2`
denote the same type.

A smaller language change is that the [language specification now
states](/ref/spec#Floating_point_operators) when implementations are
allowed to fuse floating point operations together, such as by using an
architecture's "fused multiply and add" (FMA) instruction to compute
`x*y` `+` `z` without rounding the intermediate result `x*y`. To force
the intermediate rounding, write `float64(x*y)` `+` `z`.

## Ports

There are no new supported operating systems or processor architectures
in this release.

### ppc64x requires POWER8 {#power8}

Both `GOARCH=ppc64` and `GOARCH=ppc64le` now require at least POWER8
support. In previous releases, only `GOARCH=ppc64le` required POWER8 and
the big endian `ppc64` architecture supported older hardware.

### FreeBSD

Go 1.9 is the last release that will run on FreeBSD 9.3, which is
already [unsupported by
FreeBSD](https://www.freebsd.org/security/unsupported.html){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"}. Go 1.10 will require FreeBSD 10.3+.

### OpenBSD 6.0 {#openbsd}

Go 1.9 now enables PT_TLS generation for cgo binaries and thus requires
OpenBSD 6.0 or newer. Go 1.9 no longer supports OpenBSD 5.9.

### Known Issues {#known_issues}

There are some instabilities on FreeBSD that are known but not
understood. These can lead to program crashes in rare cases. See [issue
15658](/issue/15658). Any help in solving this FreeBSD-specific issue
would be appreciated.

Go stopped running NetBSD builders during the Go 1.9 development cycle
due to NetBSD kernel crashes, up to and including NetBSD 7.1. As Go 1.9
is being released, NetBSD 7.1.1 is being released with a fix. However,
at this time we have no NetBSD builders passing our test suite. Any help
investigating the [various NetBSD
issues](https://github.com/golang/go/labels/OS-NetBSD){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"} would be appreciated.

## Tools

### Parallel Compilation {#parallel-compile}

The Go compiler now supports compiling a package's functions in
parallel, taking advantage of multiple cores. This is in addition to the
`go` command's existing support for parallel compilation of separate
packages. Parallel compilation is on by default, but it can be disabled
by setting the environment variable `GO19CONCURRENTCOMPILATION` to `0`.

### Vendor matching with ./... {#vendor-dotdotdot}

By popular request, `./...` no longer matches packages in `vendor`
directories in tools accepting package names, such as `go` `test`. To
match vendor directories, write `./vendor/...`.

### Moved GOROOT {#goroot}

The [go tool](/cmd/go/) will now use the path from which it was invoked
to attempt to locate the root of the Go install tree. This means that if
the entire Go installation is moved to a new location, the go tool
should continue to work as usual. This may be overridden by setting
`GOROOT` in the environment, which should only be done in unusual
circumstances. Note that this does not affect the result of the
[runtime.GOROOT](/pkg/runtime/#GOROOT) function, which will continue to
report the original installation location; this may be fixed in later
releases.

### Compiler Toolchain {#compiler}

Complex division is now C99-compatible. This has always been the case in
gccgo and is now fixed in the gc toolchain.

The linker will now generate DWARF information for cgo executables on
Windows.

The compiler now includes lexical scopes in the generated DWARF if the
`-N -l` flags are provided, allowing debuggers to hide variables that
are not in scope. The `.debug_info` section is now DWARF version 4.

The values of `GOARM` and `GO386` now affect a compiled package's build
ID, as used by the `go` tool's dependency caching.

### Assembler {#asm}

The four-operand ARM `MULA` instruction is now assembled correctly, with
the addend register as the third argument and the result register as the
fourth and final argument. In previous releases, the two meanings were
reversed. The three-operand form, in which the fourth argument is
implicitly the same as the third, is unaffected. Code using four-operand
`MULA` instructions will need to be updated, but we believe this form is
very rarely used. `MULAWT` and `MULAWB` were already using the correct
order in all forms and are unchanged.

The assembler now supports `ADDSUBPS/PD`, completing the two missing x86
SSE3 instructions.

### Doc {#go-doc}

Long lists of arguments are now truncated. This improves the readability
of `go` `doc` on some generated code.

Viewing documentation on struct fields is now supported. For example,
`go` `doc` `http.Client.Jar`.

### Env {#go-env-json}

The new `go` `env` `-json` flag enables JSON output, instead of the
default OS-specific output format.

### Test {#go-test-list}

The [`go` `test`](/cmd/go/#hdr-Description_of_testing_flags) command
accepts a new `-list` flag, which takes a regular expression as an
argument and prints to stdout the name of any tests, benchmarks, or
examples that match it, without running them.

### Pprof {#go-tool-pprof}

Profiles produced by the `runtime/pprof` package now include symbol
information, so they can be viewed in `go` `tool` `pprof` without the
binary that produced the profile.

The `go` `tool` `pprof` command now uses the HTTP proxy information
defined in the environment, using
[`http.ProxyFromEnvironment`](/pkg/net/http/#ProxyFromEnvironment).

### Vet

The [`vet` command](/cmd/vet/) has been better integrated into the [`go`
tool](/cmd/go/), so `go` `vet` now supports all standard build flags
while `vet`'s own flags are now available from `go` `vet` as well as
from `go` `tool` `vet`.

### Gccgo

Due to the alignment of Go's semiannual release schedule with GCC's
annual release schedule, GCC release 7 contains the Go 1.8.3 version of
gccgo. We expect that the next release, GCC 8, will contain the Go 1.10
version of gccgo.

## Runtime

### Call stacks with inlined frames {#callersframes}

Users of [`runtime.Callers`](/pkg/runtime#Callers) should avoid directly
inspecting the resulting PC slice and instead use
[`runtime.CallersFrames`](/pkg/runtime#CallersFrames) to get a complete
view of the call stack, or [`runtime.Caller`](/pkg/runtime#Caller) to
get information about a single caller. This is because an individual
element of the PC slice cannot account for inlined frames or other
nuances of the call stack.

Specifically, code that directly iterates over the PC slice and uses
functions such as [`runtime.FuncForPC`](/pkg/runtime#FuncForPC) to
resolve each PC individually will miss inlined frames. To get a complete
view of the stack, such code should instead use `CallersFrames`.
Likewise, code should not assume that the length returned by `Callers`
is any indication of the call depth. It should instead count the number
of frames returned by `CallersFrames`.

Code that queries a single caller at a specific depth should use
`Caller` rather than passing a slice of length 1 to `Callers`.

[`runtime.CallersFrames`](/pkg/runtime#CallersFrames) has been available
since Go 1.7, so code can be updated prior to upgrading to Go 1.9.

## Performance

As always, the changes are so general and varied that precise statements
about performance are difficult to make. Most programs should run a bit
faster, due to speedups in the garbage collector, better generated code,
and optimizations in the core library.

### Garbage Collector {#gc}

Library functions that used to trigger stop-the-world garbage collection
now trigger concurrent garbage collection. Specifically,
[`runtime.GC`](/pkg/runtime/#GC),
[`debug.SetGCPercent`](/pkg/runtime/debug/#SetGCPercent), and
[`debug.FreeOSMemory`](/pkg/runtime/debug/#FreeOSMemory), now trigger
concurrent garbage collection, blocking only the calling goroutine until
the garbage collection is done.

The [`debug.SetGCPercent`](/pkg/runtime/debug/#SetGCPercent) function
only triggers a garbage collection if one is immediately necessary
because of the new GOGC value. This makes it possible to adjust GOGC
on-the-fly.

Large object allocation performance is significantly improved in
applications using large (\>50GB) heaps containing many large objects.

The [`runtime.ReadMemStats`](/pkg/runtime/#ReadMemStats) function now
takes less than 100Âµs even for very large heaps.

## Standard library {#library}

### Transparent Monotonic Time support {#monotonic-time}

The [`time`](/pkg/time/) package now transparently tracks monotonic time
in each [`Time`](/pkg/time/#Time) value, making computing durations
between two `Time` values a safe operation in the presence of wall clock
adjustments. See the [package docs](/pkg/time/#hdr-Monotonic_Clocks) and
[design document](/design/12914-monotonic) for details.

### New bit manipulation package {#math-bits}

Go 1.9 includes a new package, [`math/bits`](/pkg/math/bits/), with
optimized implementations for manipulating bits. On most architectures,
functions in this package are additionally recognized by the compiler
and treated as intrinsics for additional performance.

### Test Helper Functions {#test-helper}

The new [`(*T).Helper`](/pkg/testing/#T.Helper) and
[`(*B).Helper`](/pkg/testing/#B.Helper) methods mark the calling
function as a test helper function. When printing file and line
information, that function will be skipped. This permits writing test
helper functions while still having useful line numbers for users.

### Concurrent Map {#sync-map}

The new [`Map`](/pkg/sync/#Map) type in the [`sync`](/pkg/sync/) package
is a concurrent map with amortized-constant-time loads, stores, and
deletes. It is safe for multiple goroutines to call a `Map`'s methods
concurrently.

### Profiler Labels {#pprof-labels}

The [`runtime/pprof` package](/pkg/runtime/pprof) now supports adding
labels to `pprof` profiler records. Labels form a key-value map that is
used to distinguish calls of the same function in different contexts
when looking at profiles with the [`pprof` command](/cmd/pprof/). The
`pprof` package's new [`Do` function](/pkg/runtime/pprof/#Do) runs code
associated with some provided labels. Other new functions in the package
help work with labels.

### Minor changes to the library {#minor_library_changes}

As always, there are various minor changes and updates to the library,
made with the Go 1 [promise of compatibility](/doc/go1compat) in mind.

#### [archive/zip](/pkg/archive/zip/) {#archivezippkgarchivezip}

The ZIP [`Writer`](/pkg/archive/zip/#Writer) now sets the UTF-8 bit in
the [`FileHeader.Flags`](/pkg/archive/zip/#FileHeader.Flags) when
appropriate.

#### [crypto/rand](/pkg/crypto/rand/) {#cryptorandpkgcryptorand}

On Linux, Go now calls the `getrandom` system call without the
`GRND_NONBLOCK` flag; it will now block until the kernel has sufficient
randomness. On kernels predating the `getrandom` system call, Go
continues to read from `/dev/urandom`.

#### [crypto/x509](/pkg/crypto/x509/) {#cryptox509pkgcryptox509}

On Unix systems the environment variables `SSL_CERT_FILE` and
`SSL_CERT_DIR` can now be used to override the system default locations
for the SSL certificate file and SSL certificate files directory,
respectively.

The FreeBSD file `/usr/local/etc/ssl/cert.pem` is now included in the
certificate search path.

The package now supports excluded domains in name constraints. In
addition to enforcing such constraints,
[`CreateCertificate`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#CreateCertificate) will create
certificates with excluded name constraints if the provided template
certificate has the new field
[`ExcludedDNSDomains`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#Certificate.ExcludedDNSDomains)
populated.

If any SAN extension, including with no DNS names, is present in the
certificate, then the Common Name from
[`Subject`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#Certificate.Subject) is ignored. In
previous releases, the code tested only whether DNS-name SANs were
present in a certificate.

#### [database/sql](/pkg/database/sql/) {#databasesqlpkgdatabasesql}

The package will now use a cached [`Stmt`](/pkg/database/sql/#Stmt) if
available in [`Tx.Stmt`](/pkg/database/sql/#Tx.Stmt). This prevents
statements from being re-prepared each time
[`Tx.Stmt`](/pkg/database/sql/#Tx.Stmt) is called.

The package now allows drivers to implement their own argument checkers
by implementing
[`driver.NamedValueChecker`](/pkg/database/sql/driver/#NamedValueChecker).
This also allows drivers to support `OUTPUT` and `INOUT` parameter
types. [`Out`](/pkg/database/sql/#Out) should be used to return output
parameters when supported by the driver.

[`Rows.Scan`](/pkg/database/sql/#Rows.Scan) can now scan user-defined
string types. Previously the package supported scanning into numeric
types like `type` `Int` `int64`. It now also supports scanning into
string types like `type` `String` `string`.

The new [`DB.Conn`](/pkg/database/sql/#DB.Conn) method returns the new
[`Conn`](/pkg/database/sql/#Conn) type representing an exclusive
connection to the database from the connection pool. All queries run on
a [`Conn`](/pkg/database/sql/#Conn) will use the same underlying
connection until [`Conn.Close`](/pkg/database/sql/#Conn.Close) is called
to return the connection to the connection pool.

#### [encoding/asn1](/pkg/encoding/asn1/) {#encodingasn1pkgencodingasn1}

The new [`NullBytes`](/pkg/encoding/asn1/#NullBytes) and
[`NullRawValue`](/pkg/encoding/asn1/#NullRawValue) represent the ASN.1
NULL type.

#### [encoding/base32](/pkg/encoding/base32/) {#encodingbase32pkgencodingbase32}

The new
[Encoding.WithPadding](/pkg/encoding/base32/#Encoding.WithPadding)
method adds support for custom padding characters and disabling padding.

#### [encoding/csv](/pkg/encoding/csv/) {#encodingcsvpkgencodingcsv}

The new field
[`Reader.ReuseRecord`](/pkg/encoding/csv/#Reader.ReuseRecord) controls
whether calls to [`Read`](/pkg/encoding/csv/#Reader.Read) may return a
slice sharing the backing array of the previous call's returned slice
for improved performance.

#### [fmt](/pkg/fmt/) {#fmtpkgfmt}

The sharp flag ('`#`') is now supported when printing floating point and
complex numbers. It will always print a decimal point for `%e`, `%E`,
`%f`, `%F`, `%g` and `%G`; it will not remove trailing zeros for `%g`
and `%G`.

#### [hash/fnv](/pkg/hash/fnv/) {#hashfnvpkghashfnv}

The package now includes 128-bit FNV-1 and FNV-1a hash support with
[`New128`](/pkg/hash/fnv/#New128) and
[`New128a`](/pkg/hash/fnv/#New128a), respectively.

#### [html/template](/pkg/html/template/) {#htmltemplatepkghtmltemplate}

The package now reports an error if a predefined escaper (one of "html",
"urlquery" and "js") is found in a pipeline and does not match what the
auto-escaper would have decided on its own. This avoids certain security
or correctness issues. Now use of one of these escapers is always either
a no-op or an error. (The no-op case eases migration from
[text/template](/pkg/text/template/).)

#### [image](/pkg/image/) {#imagepkgimage}

The [`Rectangle.Intersect`](/pkg/image/#Rectangle.Intersect) method now
returns a zero `Rectangle` when called on adjacent but non-overlapping
rectangles, as documented. In earlier releases it would incorrectly
return an empty but non-zero `Rectangle`.

#### [image/color](/pkg/image/color/) {#imagecolorpkgimagecolor}

The YCbCr to RGBA conversion formula has been tweaked to ensure that
rounding adjustments span the complete \[0, 0xffff\] RGBA range.

#### [image/png](/pkg/image/png/) {#imagepngpkgimagepng}

The new [`Encoder.BufferPool`](/pkg/image/png/#Encoder.BufferPool) field
allows specifying an
[`EncoderBufferPool`](/pkg/image/png/#EncoderBufferPool), that will be
used by the encoder to get temporary `EncoderBuffer` buffers when
encoding a PNG image. The use of a `BufferPool` reduces the number of
memory allocations performed while encoding multiple images.

The package now supports the decoding of transparent 8-bit grayscale
("Gray8") images.

#### [math/big](/pkg/math/big/) {#mathbigpkgmathbig}

The new [`IsInt64`](/pkg/math/big/#Int.IsInt64) and
[`IsUint64`](/pkg/math/big/#Int.IsUint64) methods report whether an
`Int` may be represented as an `int64` or `uint64` value.

#### [mime/multipart](/pkg/mime/multipart/) {#mimemultipartpkgmimemultipart}

The new [`FileHeader.Size`](/pkg/mime/multipart/#FileHeader.Size) field
describes the size of a file in a multipart message.

#### [net](/pkg/net/) {#netpkgnet}

The new [`Resolver.StrictErrors`](/pkg/net/#Resolver.StrictErrors)
provides control over how Go's built-in DNS resolver handles temporary
errors during queries composed of multiple sub-queries, such as an
A+AAAA address lookup.

The new [`Resolver.Dial`](/pkg/net/#Resolver.Dial) allows a `Resolver`
to use a custom dial function.

[`JoinHostPort`](/pkg/net/#JoinHostPort) now only places an address in
square brackets if the host contains a colon. In previous releases it
would also wrap addresses in square brackets if they contained a percent
('`%`') sign.

The new methods [`TCPConn.SyscallConn`](/pkg/net/#TCPConn.SyscallConn),
[`IPConn.SyscallConn`](/pkg/net/#IPConn.SyscallConn),
[`UDPConn.SyscallConn`](/pkg/net/#UDPConn.SyscallConn), and
[`UnixConn.SyscallConn`](/pkg/net/#UnixConn.SyscallConn) provide access
to the connections' underlying file descriptors.

It is now safe to call [`Dial`](/pkg/net/#Dial) with the address
obtained from `(*TCPListener).String()` after creating the listener with
[`Listen`](/pkg/net/#Listen)`(âtcpâ, â:0â)`. Previously it failed on
some machines with half-configured IPv6 stacks.

#### [net/http](/pkg/net/http/) {#nethttppkgnethttp}

The [`Cookie.String`](/pkg/net/http/#Cookie.String) method, used for
`Cookie` and `Set-Cookie` headers, now encloses values in double quotes
if the value contains either a space or a comma.

Server changes:

- [`ServeMux`](/pkg/net/http/#ServeMux) now ignores ports in the host
  header when matching handlers. The host is matched unmodified for
  `CONNECT` requests.
- The new [`Server.ServeTLS`](/pkg/net/http/#Server.ServeTLS) method
  wraps [`Server.Serve`](/pkg/net/http/#Server.Serve) with added TLS
  support.
- [`Server.WriteTimeout`](/pkg/net/http/#Server.WriteTimeout) now
  applies to HTTP/2 connections and is enforced per-stream.
- HTTP/2 now uses the priority write scheduler by default. Frames are
  scheduled by following HTTP/2 priorities as described in [RFC 7540
  Section
  5.3](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7540#section-5.3){rel="noreferrer"
  target="_blank"}.
- The HTTP handler returned by
  [`StripPrefix`](/pkg/net/http/#StripPrefix) now calls its provided
  handler with a modified clone of the original `*http.Request`. Any
  code storing per-request state in maps keyed by `*http.Request` should
  use [`Request.Context`](/pkg/net/http/#Request.Context),
  [`Request.WithContext`](/pkg/net/http/#Request.WithContext), and
  [`context.WithValue`](/pkg/context/#WithValue) instead.
- [`LocalAddrContextKey`](/pkg/net/http/#LocalAddrContextKey) now
  contains the connection's actual network address instead of the
  interface address used by the listener.

Client & Transport changes:

- The [`Transport`](/pkg/net/http/#Transport) now supports making
  requests via SOCKS5 proxy when the URL returned by
  [`Transport.Proxy`](/pkg/net/http/#Transport.Proxy) has the scheme
  `socks5`.

#### [net/http/fcgi](/pkg/net/http/fcgi/) {#nethttpfcgipkgnethttpfcgi}

The new [`ProcessEnv`](/pkg/net/http/fcgi/#ProcessEnv) function returns
FastCGI environment variables associated with an HTTP request for which
there are no appropriate [`http.Request`](/pkg/net/http/#Request)
fields, such as `REMOTE_USER`.

#### [net/http/httptest](/pkg/net/http/httptest/) {#nethttphttptestpkgnethttphttptest}

The new [`Server.Client`](/pkg/net/http/httptest/#Server.Client) method
returns an HTTP client configured for making requests to the test
server.

The new
[`Server.Certificate`](/pkg/net/http/httptest/#Server.Certificate)
method returns the test server's TLS certificate, if any.

#### [net/http/httputil](/pkg/net/http/httputil/) {#nethttphttputilpkgnethttphttputil}

The [`ReverseProxy`](/pkg/net/http/httputil/#ReverseProxy) now proxies
all HTTP/2 response trailers, even those not declared in the initial
response header. Such undeclared trailers are used by the gRPC protocol.

#### [os](/pkg/os/) {#ospkgos}

The `os` package now uses the internal runtime poller for file I/O. This
reduces the number of threads required for read/write operations on
pipes, and it eliminates races when one goroutine closes a file while
another is using the file for I/O.

On Windows, [`Args`](/pkg/os/#Args) is now populated without
`shell32.dll`, improving process start-up time by 1-7 ms.

#### [os/exec](/pkg/os/exec/) {#osexecpkgosexec}

The `os/exec` package now prevents child processes from being created
with any duplicate environment variables. If
[`Cmd.Env`](/pkg/os/exec/#Cmd.Env) contains duplicate environment keys,
only the last value in the slice for each duplicate key is used.

#### [os/user](/pkg/os/user/) {#osuserpkgosuser}

[`Lookup`](/pkg/os/user/#Lookup) and
[`LookupId`](/pkg/os/user/#LookupId) now work on Unix systems when
`CGO_ENABLED=0` by reading the `/etc/passwd` file.

[`LookupGroup`](/pkg/os/user/#LookupGroup) and
[`LookupGroupId`](/pkg/os/user/#LookupGroupId) now work on Unix systems
when `CGO_ENABLED=0` by reading the `/etc/group` file.

#### [reflect](/pkg/reflect/) {#reflectpkgreflect}

The new [`MakeMapWithSize`](/pkg/reflect/#MakeMapWithSize) function
creates a map with a capacity hint.

#### [runtime](/pkg/runtime/) {#runtimepkgruntime}

Tracebacks generated by the runtime and recorded in profiles are now
accurate in the presence of inlining. To retrieve tracebacks
programmatically, applications should use
[`runtime.CallersFrames`](/pkg/runtime/#CallersFrames) rather than
directly iterating over the results of
[`runtime.Callers`](/pkg/runtime/#Callers).

On Windows, Go no longer forces the system timer to run at high
resolution when the program is idle. This should reduce the impact of Go
programs on battery life.

On FreeBSD, `GOMAXPROCS` and [`runtime.NumCPU`](/pkg/runtime/#NumCPU)
are now based on the process' CPU mask, rather than the total number of
CPUs.

The runtime has preliminary support for Android O.

#### [runtime/debug](/pkg/runtime/debug/) {#runtimedebugpkgruntimedebug}

Calling [`SetGCPercent`](/pkg/runtime/debug/#SetGCPercent) with a
negative value no longer runs an immediate garbage collection.

#### [runtime/trace](/pkg/runtime/trace/) {#runtimetracepkgruntimetrace}

The execution trace now displays mark assist events, which indicate when
an application goroutine is forced to assist garbage collection because
it is allocating too quickly.

"Sweep" events now encompass the entire process of finding free space
for an allocation, rather than recording each individual span that is
swept. This reduces allocation latency when tracing allocation-heavy
programs. The sweep event shows how many bytes were swept and how many
were reclaimed.

#### [sync](/pkg/sync/) {#syncpkgsync}

[`Mutex`](/pkg/sync/#Mutex) is now more fair.

#### [syscall](/pkg/syscall/) {#syscallpkgsyscall}

The new field
[`Credential.NoSetGroups`](/pkg/syscall/#Credential.NoSetGroups)
controls whether Unix systems make a `setgroups` system call to set
supplementary groups when starting a new process.

The new field
[`SysProcAttr.AmbientCaps`](/pkg/syscall/#SysProcAttr.AmbientCaps)
allows setting ambient capabilities on Linux 4.3+ when creating a new
process.

On 64-bit x86 Linux, process creation latency has been optimized with
use of `CLONE_VFORK` and `CLONE_VM`.

The new [`Conn`](/pkg/syscall/#Conn) interface describes some types in
the [`net`](/pkg/net/) package that can provide access to their
underlying file descriptor using the new
[`RawConn`](/pkg/syscall/#RawConn) interface.

#### [testing/quick](/pkg/testing/quick/) {#testingquickpkgtestingquick}

The package now chooses values in the full range when generating `int64`
and `uint64` random numbers; in earlier releases generated values were
always limited to the \[-2^62^, 2^62^) range.

In previous releases, using a nil
[`Config.Rand`](/pkg/testing/quick/#Config.Rand) value caused a fixed
deterministic random number generator to be used. It now uses a random
number generator seeded with the current time. For the old behavior, set
`Config.Rand` to `rand.New(rand.NewSource(0))`.

#### [text/template](/pkg/text/template/) {#texttemplatepkgtexttemplate}

The handling of empty blocks, which was broken by a Go 1.8 change that
made the result dependent on the order of templates, has been fixed,
restoring the old Go 1.7 behavior.

#### [time](/pkg/time/) {#timepkgtime}

The new methods [`Duration.Round`](/pkg/time/#Duration.Round) and
[`Duration.Truncate`](/pkg/time/#Duration.Truncate) handle rounding and
truncating durations to multiples of a given duration.

Retrieving the time and sleeping now work correctly under Wine.

If a `Time` value has a monotonic clock reading, its string
representation (as returned by `String`) now includes a final field
`"m=Â±value"`, where `value` is the monotonic clock reading formatted as
a decimal number of seconds.

The included `tzdata` timezone database has been updated to version
2017b. As always, it is only used if the system does not already have
the database available.
:::
:::::
