::::: {#main-content .SiteContent .SiteContent--default role="main"}
# Go 1.10 Release Notes

::: {#nav .TOC}
:::

::: markdown
## Introduction to Go 1.10 {#introduction}

The latest Go release, version 1.10, arrives six months after [Go
1.9](go1.9). Most of its changes are in the implementation of the
toolchain, runtime, and libraries. As always, the release maintains the
Go 1 [promise of compatibility](/doc/go1compat.html). We expect almost
all Go programs to continue to compile and run as before.

This release improves [caching of built packages](#build), adds [caching
of successful test results](#test), runs [vet automatically during
tests](#test-vet), and permits [passing string values directly between
Go and C using cgo](#cgo). A new [hard-coded set of safe compiler
options](#cgo) may cause unexpected [`invalid flag`](/s/invalidflag)
errors in code that built successfully with older releases.

## Changes to the language {#language}

There are no significant changes to the language specification.

A corner case involving shifts of untyped constants has been clarified,
and as a result the compilers have been updated to allow the index
expression `x[1.0` `<<` `s]` where `s` is an unsigned integer; the
[go/types](/pkg/go/types/) package already did.

The grammar for method expressions has been updated to relax the syntax
to allow any type expression as a receiver; this matches what the
compilers were already implementing. For example,
`struct{io.Reader}.Read` is a valid, if unusual, method expression that
the compilers already accepted and is now permitted by the language
grammar.

## Ports

There are no new supported operating systems or processor architectures
in this release. Most of the work has focused on strengthening the
support for existing ports, in particular [new instructions in the
assembler](#asm) and improvements to the code generated by the
compilers.

As [announced in the Go 1.9 release notes](go1.9#freebsd), Go 1.10 now
requires FreeBSD 10.3 or later; support for FreeBSD 9.3 has been
removed.

Go now runs on NetBSD again but requires the unreleased NetBSD 8. Only
`GOARCH` `amd64` and `386` have been fixed. The `arm` port is still
broken.

On 32-bit MIPS systems, the new environment variable settings
`GOMIPS=hardfloat` (the default) and `GOMIPS=softfloat` select whether
to use hardware instructions or software emulation for floating-point
computations.

Go 1.10 is the last release that will run on OpenBSD 6.0. Go 1.11 will
require OpenBSD 6.2.

Go 1.10 is the last release that will run on OS X 10.8 Mountain Lion or
OS X 10.9 Mavericks. Go 1.11 will require OS X 10.10 Yosemite or later.

Go 1.10 is the last release that will run on Windows XP or Windows
Vista. Go 1.11 will require Windows 7 or later.

## Tools

### Default GOROOT & GOTMPDIR {#goroot}

If the environment variable `$GOROOT` is unset, the go tool previously
used the default `GOROOT` set during toolchain compilation. Now, before
falling back to that default, the go tool attempts to deduce `GOROOT`
from its own executable path. This allows binary distributions to be
unpacked anywhere in the file system and then be used without setting
`GOROOT` explicitly.

By default, the go tool creates its temporary files and directories in
the system temporary directory (for example, `$TMPDIR` on Unix). If the
new environment variable `$GOTMPDIR` is set, the go tool will create its
temporary files and directories in that directory instead.

### Build & Install {#build}

The `go` `build` command now detects out-of-date packages purely based
on the content of source files, specified build flags, and metadata
stored in the compiled packages. Modification times are no longer
consulted or relevant. The old advice to add `-a` to force a rebuild in
cases where the modification times were misleading for one reason or
another (for example, changes in build flags) is no longer necessary:
builds now always detect when packages must be rebuilt. (If you observe
otherwise, please file a bug.)

The `go` `build` `-asmflags`, `-gcflags`, `-gccgoflags`, and `-ldflags`
options now apply by default only to the packages listed directly on the
command line. For example, `go` `build` `-gcflags=-m` `mypkg` passes the
compiler the `-m` flag when building `mypkg` but not its dependencies.
The new, more general form `-asmflags=pattern=flags` (and similarly for
the others) applies the `flags` only to the packages matching the
pattern. For example: `go` `install`
`-ldflags=cmd/gofmt=-X=main.version=1.2.3` `cmd/...` installs all the
commands matching `cmd/...` but only applies the `-X` option to the
linker flags for `cmd/gofmt`. For more details, see [`go` `help`
`build`](/cmd/go/#hdr-Compile_packages_and_dependencies).

The `go` `build` command now maintains a cache of recently built
packages, separate from the installed packages in `$GOROOT/pkg` or
`$GOPATH/pkg`. The effect of the cache should be to speed builds that do
not explicitly install packages or when switching between different
copies of source code (for example, when changing back and forth between
different branches in a version control system). The old advice to add
the `-i` flag for speed, as in `go` `build` `-i` or `go` `test` `-i`, is
no longer necessary: builds run just as fast without `-i`. For more
details, see [`go` `help` `cache`](/cmd/go/#hdr-Build_and_test_caching).

The `go` `install` command now installs only the packages and commands
listed directly on the command line. For example, `go` `install`
`cmd/gofmt` installs the gofmt program but not any of the packages on
which it depends. The new build cache makes future commands still run as
quickly as if the dependencies had been installed. To force the
installation of dependencies, use the new `go` `install` `-i` flag.
Installing dependency packages should not be necessary in general, and
the very concept of installed packages may disappear in a future
release.

Many details of the `go` `build` implementation have changed to support
these improvements. One new requirement implied by these changes is that
binary-only packages must now declare accurate import blocks in their
stub source code, so that those imports can be made available when
linking a program using the binary-only package. For more details, see
[`go` `help` `filetype`](/cmd/go/#hdr-File_types).

### Test

The `go` `test` command now caches test results: if the test executable
and command line match a previous run and the files and environment
variables consulted by that run have not changed either, `go` `test`
will print the previous test output, replacing the elapsed time with the
string "(cached)." Test caching applies only to successful test results;
only to `go` `test` commands with an explicit list of packages; and only
to command lines using a subset of the `-cpu`, `-list`, `-parallel`,
`-run`, `-short`, and `-v` test flags. The idiomatic way to bypass test
caching is to use `-count=1`.

The `go` `test` command now automatically runs `go` `vet` on the package
being tested, to identify significant problems before running the test.
Any such problems are treated like build errors and prevent execution of
the test. Only a high-confidence subset of the available `go` `vet`
checks are enabled for this automatic check. To disable the running of
`go` `vet`, use `go` `test` `-vet=off`.

The `go` `test` `-coverpkg` flag now interprets its argument as a
comma-separated list of patterns to match against the dependencies of
each test, not as a list of packages to load anew. For example, `go`
`test` `-coverpkg=all` is now a meaningful way to run a test with
coverage enabled for the test package and all its dependencies. Also,
the `go` `test` `-coverprofile` option is now supported when running
multiple tests.

In case of failure due to timeout, tests are now more likely to write
their profiles before exiting.

The `go` `test` command now always merges the standard output and
standard error from a given test binary execution and writes both to
`go` `test`'s standard output. In past releases, `go` `test` only
applied this merging most of the time.

The `go` `test` `-v` output now includes `PAUSE` and `CONT` status
update lines to mark when [parallel tests](/pkg/testing/#T.Parallel)
pause and continue.

The new `go` `test` `-failfast` flag disables running additional tests
after any test fails. Note that tests running in parallel with the
failing test are allowed to complete.

Finally, the new `go` `test` `-json` flag filters test output through
the new command `go` `tool` `test2json` to produce a machine-readable
JSON-formatted description of test execution. This allows the creation
of rich presentations of test execution in IDEs and other tools.

For more details about all these changes, see [`go` `help`
`test`](/cmd/go/#hdr-Test_packages) and the [test2json
documentation](/cmd/test2json/).

### Cgo

Options specified by cgo using `#cgo CFLAGS` and the like are now
checked against a list of permitted options. This closes a security hole
in which a downloaded package uses compiler options like
[`-fplugin`]{style="white-space: nowrap"} to run arbitrary code on the
machine where it is being built. This can cause a build error such as
`invalid flag in #cgo CFLAGS`. For more background, and how to handle
this error, see [https://golang.org/s/invalidflag](/s/invalidflag).

Cgo now implements a C typedef like "`typedef` `X` `Y`" using a Go type
alias, so that Go code may use the types `C.X` and `C.Y`
interchangeably. It also now supports the use of niladic function-like
macros. Also, the documentation has been updated to clarify that Go
structs and Go arrays are not supported in the type signatures of
cgo-exported functions.

Cgo now supports direct access to Go string values from C. Functions in
the C preamble may use the type `_GoString_` to accept a Go string as an
argument. C code may call `_GoStringLen` and `_GoStringPtr` for direct
access to the contents of the string. A value of type `_GoString_` may
be passed in a call to an exported Go function that takes an argument of
Go type `string`.

During toolchain bootstrap, the environment variables `CC` and
`CC_FOR_TARGET` specify the default C compiler that the resulting
toolchain will use for host and target builds, respectively. However, if
the toolchain will be used with multiple targets, it may be necessary to
specify a different C compiler for each (for example, a different
compiler for `darwin/arm64` versus `linux/ppc64le`). The new set of
environment variables `CC_FOR_`*`goos`*`_`*`goarch`* allows specifying a
different default C compiler for each target. Note that these variables
only apply during toolchain bootstrap, to set the defaults used by the
resulting toolchain. Later `go` `build` commands use the `CC`
environment variable or else the built-in default.

Cgo now translates some C types that would normally map to a pointer
type in Go, to a `uintptr` instead. These types include the `CFTypeRef`
hierarchy in Darwin's CoreFoundation framework and the `jobject`
hierarchy in Java's JNI interface.

These types must be `uintptr` on the Go side because they would
otherwise confuse the Go garbage collector; they are sometimes not
really pointers but data structures encoded in a pointer-sized integer.
Pointers to Go memory must not be stored in these `uintptr` values.

Because of this change, values of the affected types need to be
zero-initialized with the constant `0` instead of the constant `nil`. Go
1.10 provides `gofix` modules to help with that rewrite:

    go tool fix -r cftype <pkg>
    go tool fix -r jni <pkg>

For more details, see the [cgo documentation](/cmd/cgo/).

### Doc

The `go` `doc` tool now adds functions returning slices of `T` or `*T`
to the display of type `T`, similar to the existing behavior for
functions returning single `T` or `*T` results. For example:

    $ go doc mail.Address
    package mail // import "net/mail"

    type Address struct {
        Name    string
        Address string
    }
        Address represents a single mail address.

    func ParseAddress(address string) (*Address, error)
    func ParseAddressList(list string) ([]*Address, error)
    func (a *Address) String() string
    $

Previously, `ParseAddressList` was only shown in the package overview
(`go` `doc` `mail`).

### Fix

The `go` `fix` tool now replaces imports of `"golang.org/x/net/context"`
with `"context"`. (Forwarding aliases in the former make it completely
equivalent to the latter when using Go 1.9 or later.)

### Get

The `go` `get` command now supports Fossil source code repositories.

### Pprof

The blocking and mutex profiles produced by the `runtime/pprof` package
now include symbol information, so they can be viewed in `go` `tool`
`pprof` without the binary that produced the profile. (All other profile
types were changed to include symbol information in Go 1.9.)

The [`go` `tool` `pprof`](/cmd/pprof/) profile visualizer has been
updated to git version 9e20b5b (2017-11-08) from
[github.com/google/pprof](https://github.com/google/pprof){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"}, which includes an updated web interface.

### Vet

The [`go` `vet`](/cmd/vet/) command now always has access to complete,
up-to-date type information when checking packages, even for packages
using cgo or vendored imports. The reports should be more accurate as a
result. Note that only `go` `vet` has access to this information; the
more low-level `go` `tool` `vet` does not and should be avoided except
when working on `vet` itself. (As of Go 1.9, `go` `vet` provides access
to all the same flags as `go` `tool` `vet`.)

### Diagnostics {#diag}

This release includes a new [overview of available Go program diagnostic
tools](/doc/diagnostics.html).

### Gofmt

Two minor details of the default formatting of Go source code have
changed. First, certain complex three-index slice expressions previously
formatted like `x[i+1` `:` `j:k]` and now format with more consistent
spacing: `x[i+1` `:` `j` `:` `k]`. Second, single-method interface
literals written on a single line, which are sometimes used in type
assertions, are no longer split onto multiple lines.

Note that these kinds of minor updates to gofmt are expected from time
to time. In general, we recommend against building systems that check
that source code matches the output of a specific version of gofmt. For
example, a continuous integration test that fails if any code already
checked into a repository is not "properly formatted" is inherently
fragile and not recommended.

If multiple programs must agree about which version of gofmt is used to
format a source file, we recommend that they do this by arranging to
invoke the same gofmt binary. For example, in the Go open source
repository, our Git pre-commit hook is written in Go and could import
`go/format` directly, but instead it invokes the `gofmt` binary found in
the current path, so that the pre-commit hook need not be recompiled
each time `gofmt` changes.

### Compiler Toolchain {#compiler}

The compiler includes many improvements to the performance of generated
code, spread fairly evenly across the supported architectures.

The DWARF debug information recorded in binaries has been improved in a
few ways: constant values are now recorded; line number information is
more accurate, making source-level stepping through a program work
better; and each package is now presented as its own DWARF compilation
unit.

The various [build
modes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nr-TQHw_er6GOQRsF6T43GGhFDelrAP0NqSS_00RgZQ/edit){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"} have been ported to more systems. Specifically,
`c-shared` now works on `linux/ppc64le`, `windows/386`, and
`windows/amd64`; `pie` now works on `darwin/amd64` and also forces the
use of external linking on all systems; and `plugin` now works on
`linux/ppc64le` and `darwin/amd64`.

The `linux/ppc64le` port now requires the use of external linking with
any programs that use cgo, even uses by the standard library.

### Assembler {#asm}

For the ARM 32-bit port, the assembler now supports the instructions
[`BFC`]{.small}, [`BFI`]{.small}, [`BFX`]{.small}, [`BFXU`]{.small},
[`FMULAD`]{.small}, [`FMULAF`]{.small}, [`FMULSD`]{.small},
[`FMULSF`]{.small}, [`FNMULAD`]{.small}, [`FNMULAF`]{.small},
[`FNMULSD`]{.small}, [`FNMULSF`]{.small}, [`MULAD`]{.small},
[`MULAF`]{.small}, [`MULSD`]{.small}, [`MULSF`]{.small},
[`NMULAD`]{.small}, [`NMULAF`]{.small}, [`NMULD`]{.small},
[`NMULF`]{.small}, [`NMULSD`]{.small}, [`NMULSF`]{.small},
[`XTAB`]{.small}, [`XTABU`]{.small}, [`XTAH`]{.small}, and
[`XTAHU`]{.small}.

For the ARM 64-bit port, the assembler now supports the
[`VADD`]{.small}, [`VADDP`]{.small}, [`VADDV`]{.small},
[`VAND`]{.small}, [`VCMEQ`]{.small}, [`VDUP`]{.small}, [`VEOR`]{.small},
[`VLD1`]{.small}, [`VMOV`]{.small}, [`VMOVI`]{.small},
[`VMOVS`]{.small}, [`VORR`]{.small}, [`VREV32`]{.small}, and
[`VST1`]{.small} instructions.

For the PowerPC 64-bit port, the assembler now supports the POWER9
instructions [`ADDEX`]{.small}, [`CMPEQB`]{.small}, [`COPY`]{.small},
[`DARN`]{.small}, [`LDMX`]{.small}, [`MADDHD`]{.small},
[`MADDHDU`]{.small}, [`MADDLD`]{.small}, [`MFVSRLD`]{.small},
[`MTVSRDD`]{.small}, [`MTVSRWS`]{.small}, [`PASTECC`]{.small},
[`VCMPNEZB`]{.small}, [`VCMPNEZBCC`]{.small}, and [`VMSUMUDM`]{.small}.

For the S390X port, the assembler now supports the [`TMHH`]{.small},
[`TMHL`]{.small}, [`TMLH`]{.small}, and [`TMLL`]{.small} instructions.

For the X86 64-bit port, the assembler now supports 359 new
instructions, including the full AVX, AVX2, BMI, BMI2, F16C, FMA3, SSE2,
SSE3, SSSE3, SSE4.1, and SSE4.2 extension sets. The assembler also no
longer implements [`MOVL`]{.small} [`$0,`]{.small} [`AX`]{.small} as an
[`XORL`]{.small} instruction, to avoid clearing the condition flags
unexpectedly.

### Gccgo

Due to the alignment of Go's semiannual release schedule with GCC's
annual release schedule, GCC release 7 contains the Go 1.8.3 version of
gccgo. We expect that the next release, GCC 8, will contain the Go 1.10
version of gccgo.

## Runtime

The behavior of nested calls to
[`LockOSThread`](/pkg/runtime/#LockOSThread) and
[`UnlockOSThread`](/pkg/runtime/#UnlockOSThread) has changed. These
functions control whether a goroutine is locked to a specific operating
system thread, so that the goroutine only runs on that thread, and the
thread only runs that goroutine. Previously, calling `LockOSThread` more
than once in a row was equivalent to calling it once, and a single
`UnlockOSThread` always unlocked the thread. Now, the calls nest: if
`LockOSThread` is called multiple times, `UnlockOSThread` must be called
the same number of times in order to unlock the thread. Existing code
that was careful not to nest these calls will remain correct. Existing
code that incorrectly assumed the calls nested will become correct. Most
uses of these functions in public Go source code falls into the second
category.

Because one common use of `LockOSThread` and `UnlockOSThread` is to
allow Go code to reliably modify thread-local state (for example, Linux
or Plan 9 name spaces), the runtime now treats locked threads as
unsuitable for reuse or for creating new threads.

Stack traces no longer include implicit wrapper functions (previously
marked `<autogenerated>`), unless a fault or panic happens in the
wrapper itself. As a result, skip counts passed to functions like
[`Caller`](/pkg/runtime/#Caller) should now always match the structure
of the code as written, rather than depending on optimization decisions
and implementation details.

The garbage collector has been modified to reduce its impact on
allocation latency. It now uses a smaller fraction of the overall CPU
when running, but it may run more of the time. The total CPU consumed by
the garbage collector has not changed significantly.

The [`GOROOT`](/pkg/runtime/#GOROOT) function now defaults (when the
`$GOROOT` environment variable is not set) to the `GOROOT` or
`GOROOT_FINAL` in effect at the time the calling program was compiled.
Previously it used the `GOROOT` or `GOROOT_FINAL` in effect at the time
the toolchain that compiled the calling program was compiled.

There is no longer a limit on the
[`GOMAXPROCS`](/pkg/runtime/#GOMAXPROCS) setting. (In Go 1.9 the limit
was 1024.)

## Performance

As always, the changes are so general and varied that precise statements
about performance are difficult to make. Most programs should run a bit
faster, due to speedups in the garbage collector, better generated code,
and optimizations in the core library.

## Garbage Collector {#gc}

Many applications should experience significantly lower allocation
latency and overall performance overhead when the garbage collector is
active.

## Standard library {#library}

All of the changes to the standard library are minor. The changes in
[bytes](#bytes) and [net/url](#net/url) are the most likely to require
updating of existing programs.

### Minor changes to the library {#minor_library_changes}

As always, there are various minor changes and updates to the library,
made with the Go 1 [promise of compatibility](/doc/go1compat) in mind.

#### [archive/tar](/pkg/archive/tar/) {#archivetarpkgarchivetar}

In general, the handling of special header formats is significantly
improved and expanded.

[`FileInfoHeader`](/pkg/archive/tar/#FileInfoHeader) has always recorded
the Unix UID and GID numbers from its [`os.FileInfo`](/pkg/os/#FileInfo)
argument (specifically, from the system-dependent information returned
by the `FileInfo`'s `Sys` method) in the returned
[`Header`](/pkg/archive/tar/#Header). Now it also records the user and
group names corresponding to those IDs, as well as the major and minor
device numbers for device files.

The new [`Header.Format`](/pkg/archive/tar/#Header) field of type
[`Format`](/pkg/archive/tar/#Format) controls which tar header format
the [`Writer`](/pkg/archive/tar/#Writer) uses. The default, as before,
is to select the most widely-supported header type that can encode the
fields needed by the header (USTAR if possible, or else PAX if possible,
or else GNU). The [`Reader`](/pkg/archive/tar/#Reader) sets
`Header.Format` for each header it reads.

`Reader` and the `Writer` now support arbitrary PAX records, using the
new [`Header.PAXRecords`](/pkg/archive/tar/#Header) field, a
generalization of the existing `Xattrs` field.

The `Reader` no longer insists that the file name or link name in GNU
headers be valid UTF-8.

When writing PAX- or GNU-format headers, the `Writer` now includes the
`Header.AccessTime` and `Header.ChangeTime` fields (if set). When
writing PAX-format headers, the times include sub-second precision.

#### [archive/zip](/pkg/archive/zip/) {#archivezippkgarchivezip}

Go 1.10 adds more complete support for times and character set encodings
in ZIP archives.

The original ZIP format used the standard MS-DOS encoding of year,
month, day, hour, minute, and second into fields in two 16-bit values.
That encoding cannot represent time zones or odd seconds, so multiple
extensions have been introduced to allow richer encodings. In Go 1.10,
the [`Reader`](/pkg/archive/zip/#Reader) and
[`Writer`](/pkg/archive/zip/#Writer) now support the widely-understood
Info-Zip extension that encodes the time separately in the 32-bit Unix
"seconds since epoch" form. The
[`FileHeader`](/pkg/archive/zip/#FileHeader)'s new `Modified` field of
type [`time.Time`](/pkg/time/#Time) obsoletes the `ModifiedTime` and
`ModifiedDate` fields, which continue to hold the MS-DOS encoding. The
`Reader` and `Writer` now adopt the common convention that a ZIP archive
storing a time zone-independent Unix time also stores the local time in
the MS-DOS field, so that the time zone offset can be inferred. For
compatibility, the [`ModTime`](/pkg/archive/zip/#FileHeader.ModTime) and
[`SetModTime`](/pkg/archive/zip/#FileHeader.SetModTime) methods behave
the same as in earlier releases; new code should use `Modified`
directly.

The header for each file in a ZIP archive has a flag bit indicating
whether the name and comment fields are encoded as UTF-8, as opposed to
a system-specific default encoding. In Go 1.8 and earlier, the `Writer`
never set the UTF-8 bit. In Go 1.9, the `Writer` changed to set the
UTF-8 bit almost always. This broke the creation of ZIP archives
containing Shift-JIS file names. In Go 1.10, the `Writer` now sets the
UTF-8 bit only when both the name and the comment field are valid UTF-8
and at least one is non-ASCII. Because non-ASCII encodings very rarely
look like valid UTF-8, the new heuristic should be correct nearly all
the time. Setting a `FileHeader`'s new `NonUTF8` field to true disables
the heuristic entirely for that file.

The `Writer` also now supports setting the end-of-central-directory
record's comment field, by calling the `Writer`'s new
[`SetComment`](/pkg/archive/zip/#Writer.SetComment) method.

#### [bufio](/pkg/bufio/) {#bufiopkgbufio}

The new [`Reader.Size`](/pkg/bufio/#Reader.Size) and
[`Writer.Size`](/pkg/bufio/#Writer.Size) methods report the `Reader` or
`Writer`'s underlying buffer size.

#### [bytes](/pkg/bytes/) {#bytespkgbytes}

The [`Fields`](/pkg/bytes/#Fields),
[`FieldsFunc`](/pkg/bytes/#FieldsFunc), [`Split`](/pkg/bytes/#Split),
and [`SplitAfter`](/pkg/bytes/#SplitAfter) functions have always
returned subslices of their inputs. Go 1.10 changes each returned
subslice to have capacity equal to its length, so that appending to one
cannot overwrite adjacent data in the original input.

#### [crypto/cipher](/pkg/crypto/cipher/) {#cryptocipherpkgcryptocipher}

[`NewOFB`](/pkg/crypto/cipher/#NewOFB) now panics if given an
initialization vector of incorrect length, like the other constructors
in the package always have. (Previously it returned a nil `Stream`
implementation.)

#### [crypto/tls](/pkg/crypto/tls/) {#cryptotlspkgcryptotls}

The TLS server now advertises support for SHA-512 signatures when using
TLS 1.2. The server already supported the signatures, but some clients
would not select them unless explicitly advertised.

#### [crypto/x509](/pkg/crypto/x509/) {#cryptox509pkgcryptox509}

[`Certificate.Verify`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#Certificate.Verify) now
enforces the name constraints for all names contained in the
certificate, not just the one name that a client has asked about.
Extended key usage restrictions are similarly now checked all at once.
As a result, after a certificate has been validated, now it can be
trusted in its entirety. It is no longer necessary to revalidate the
certificate for each additional name or key usage.

Parsed certificates also now report URI names and IP, email, and URI
constraints, using the new
[`Certificate`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#Certificate) fields `URIs`,
`PermittedIPRanges`, `ExcludedIPRanges`, `PermittedEmailAddresses`,
`ExcludedEmailAddresses`, `PermittedURIDomains`, and
`ExcludedURIDomains`. Certificates with invalid values for those fields
are now rejected.

The new
[`MarshalPKCS1PublicKey`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#MarshalPKCS1PublicKey) and
[`ParsePKCS1PublicKey`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#ParsePKCS1PublicKey) functions
convert an RSA public key to and from PKCS#1-encoded form.

The new
[`MarshalPKCS8PrivateKey`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#MarshalPKCS8PrivateKey)
function converts a private key to PKCS#8-encoded form.
([`ParsePKCS8PrivateKey`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#ParsePKCS8PrivateKey) has
existed since Go 1.)

#### [crypto/x509/pkix](/pkg/crypto/x509/pkix/) {#cryptox509pkixpkgcryptox509pkix}

[`Name`](/pkg/crypto/x509/pkix/#Name) now implements a
[`String`](/pkg/crypto/x509/pkix/#Name.String) method that formats the
X.509 distinguished name in the standard RFC 2253 format.

#### [database/sql/driver](/pkg/database/sql/driver/) {#databasesqldriverpkgdatabasesqldriver}

Drivers that currently hold on to the destination buffer provided by
[`driver.Rows.Next`](/pkg/database/sql/driver/#Rows.Next) should ensure
they no longer write to a buffer assigned to the destination array
outside of that call. Drivers must be careful that underlying buffers
are not modified when closing
[`driver.Rows`](/pkg/database/sql/driver/#Rows).

Drivers that want to construct a [`sql.DB`](/pkg/database/sql/#DB) for
their clients can now implement the
[`Connector`](/pkg/database/sql/driver/#Connector) interface and call
the new [`sql.OpenDB`](/pkg/database/sql/#OpenDB) function, instead of
needing to encode all configuration into a string passed to
[`sql.Open`](/pkg/database/sql/#Open).

Drivers that want to parse the configuration string only once per
`sql.DB` instead of once per [`sql.Conn`](/pkg/database/sql/#Conn), or
that want access to each `sql.Conn`'s underlying context, can make their
[`Driver`](/pkg/database/sql/driver/#Driver) implementations also
implement [`DriverContext`](/pkg/database/sql/driver/#DriverContext)'s
new `OpenConnector` method.

Drivers that implement
[`ExecerContext`](/pkg/database/sql/driver/#ExecerContext) no longer
need to implement [`Execer`](/pkg/database/sql/driver/#Execer);
similarly, drivers that implement
[`QueryerContext`](/pkg/database/sql/driver/#QueryerContext) no longer
need to implement [`Queryer`](/pkg/database/sql/driver/#Queryer).
Previously, even if the context-based interfaces were implemented they
were ignored unless the non-context-based interfaces were also
implemented.

To allow drivers to better isolate different clients using a cached
driver connection in succession, if a
[`Conn`](/pkg/database/sql/driver/#Conn) implements the new
[`SessionResetter`](/pkg/database/sql/driver/#SessionResetter)
interface, `database/sql` will now call `ResetSession` before reusing
the `Conn` for a new client.

#### [debug/elf](/pkg/debug/elf/) {#debugelfpkgdebugelf}

This release adds 348 new relocation constants divided between the
relocation types [`R_386`](/pkg/debug/elf/#R_386),
[`R_AARCH64`](/pkg/debug/elf/#R_AARCH64),
[`R_ARM`](/pkg/debug/elf/#R_ARM), [`R_PPC64`](/pkg/debug/elf/#R_PPC64),
and [`R_X86_64`](/pkg/debug/elf/#R_X86_64).

#### [debug/macho](/pkg/debug/macho/) {#debugmachopkgdebugmacho}

Go 1.10 adds support for reading relocations from Mach-O sections, using
the [`Section`](/pkg/debug/macho#Section) struct's new `Relocs` field
and the new [`Reloc`](/pkg/debug/macho/#Reloc),
[`RelocTypeARM`](/pkg/debug/macho/#RelocTypeARM),
[`RelocTypeARM64`](/pkg/debug/macho/#RelocTypeARM64),
[`RelocTypeGeneric`](/pkg/debug/macho/#RelocTypeGeneric), and
[`RelocTypeX86_64`](/pkg/debug/macho/#RelocTypeX86_64) types and
associated constants.

Go 1.10 also adds support for the `LC_RPATH` load command, represented
by the types [`RpathCmd`](/pkg/debug/macho/#RpathCmd) and
[`Rpath`](/pkg/debug/macho/#Rpath), and new [named
constants](/pkg/debug/macho/#pkg-constants) for the various flag bits
found in headers.

#### [encoding/asn1](/pkg/encoding/asn1/) {#encodingasn1pkgencodingasn1}

[`Marshal`](/pkg/encoding/asn1/#Marshal) now correctly encodes strings
containing asterisks as type UTF8String instead of PrintableString,
unless the string is in a struct field with a tag forcing the use of
PrintableString. `Marshal` also now respects struct tags containing
`application` directives.

The new [`MarshalWithParams`](/pkg/encoding/asn1/#MarshalWithParams)
function marshals its argument as if the additional params were its
associated struct field tag.

[`Unmarshal`](/pkg/encoding/asn1/#Unmarshal) now respects struct field
tags using the `explicit` and `tag` directives.

Both `Marshal` and `Unmarshal` now support a new struct field tag
`numeric`, indicating an ASN.1 NumericString.

#### [encoding/csv](/pkg/encoding/csv/) {#encodingcsvpkgencodingcsv}

[`Reader`](/pkg/encoding/csv/#Reader) now disallows the use of
nonsensical `Comma` and `Comment` settings, such as NUL, carriage
return, newline, invalid runes, and the Unicode replacement character,
or setting `Comma` and `Comment` equal to each other.

In the case of a syntax error in a CSV record that spans multiple input
lines, `Reader` now reports the line on which the record started in the
[`ParseError`](/pkg/encoding/csv/#ParseError)'s new `StartLine` field.

#### [encoding/hex](/pkg/encoding/hex/) {#encodinghexpkgencodinghex}

The new functions [`NewEncoder`](/pkg/encoding/hex/#NewEncoder) and
[`NewDecoder`](/pkg/encoding/hex/#NewDecoder) provide streaming
conversions to and from hexadecimal, analogous to equivalent functions
already in [encoding/base32](/pkg/encoding/base32/) and
[encoding/base64](/pkg/encoding/base64/).

When the functions [`Decode`](/pkg/encoding/hex/#Decode) and
[`DecodeString`](/pkg/encoding/hex/#DecodeString) encounter malformed
input, they now return the number of bytes already converted along with
the error. Previously they always returned a count of 0 with any error.

#### [encoding/json](/pkg/encoding/json/) {#encodingjsonpkgencodingjson}

The [`Decoder`](/pkg/encoding/json/#Decoder) adds a new method
[`DisallowUnknownFields`](/pkg/encoding/json/#Decoder.DisallowUnknownFields)
that causes it to report inputs with unknown JSON fields as a decoding
error. (The default behavior has always been to discard unknown fields.)

As a result of [fixing a reflect bug](#reflect),
[`Unmarshal`](/pkg/encoding/json/#Unmarshal) can no longer decode into
fields inside embedded pointers to unexported struct types, because it
cannot initialize the unexported embedded pointer to point at fresh
storage. `Unmarshal` now returns an error in this case.

#### [encoding/pem](/pkg/encoding/pem/) {#encodingpempkgencodingpem}

[`Encode`](/pkg/encoding/pem/#Encode) and
[`EncodeToMemory`](/pkg/encoding/pem/#EncodeToMemory) no longer generate
partial output when presented with a block that is impossible to encode
as PEM data.

#### [encoding/xml](/pkg/encoding/xml/) {#encodingxmlpkgencodingxml}

The new function [`NewTokenDecoder`](/pkg/encoding/xml/#NewTokenDecoder)
is like [`NewDecoder`](/pkg/encoding/xml/#NewDecoder) but creates a
decoder reading from a [`TokenReader`](/pkg/encoding/xml/#TokenReader)
instead of an XML-formatted byte stream. This is meant to enable the
construction of XML stream transformers in client libraries.

#### [flag](/pkg/flag/) {#flagpkgflag}

The default [`Usage`](/pkg/flag/#Usage) function now prints its first
line of output to `CommandLine.Output()` instead of assuming
`os.Stderr`, so that the usage message is properly redirected for
clients using `CommandLine.SetOutput`.

[`PrintDefaults`](/pkg/flag/#PrintDefaults) now adds appropriate
indentation after newlines in flag usage strings, so that multi-line
usage strings display nicely.

[`FlagSet`](/pkg/flag/#FlagSet) adds new methods
[`ErrorHandling`](/pkg/flag/#FlagSet.ErrorHandling),
[`Name`](/pkg/flag/#FlagSet.Name), and
[`Output`](/pkg/flag/#FlagSet.Output), to retrieve the settings passed
to [`NewFlagSet`](/pkg/flag/#NewFlagSet) and
[`FlagSet.SetOutput`](/pkg/flag/#FlagSet.SetOutput).

#### [go/doc](/pkg/go/doc/) {#godocpkggodoc}

To support the [doc change](#doc) described above, functions returning
slices of `T`, `*T`, `**T`, and so on are now reported in `T`'s
[`Type`](/pkg/go/doc/#Type)'s `Funcs` list, instead of in the
[`Package`](/pkg/go/doc/#Package)'s `Funcs` list.

#### [go/importer](/pkg/go/importer/) {#goimporterpkggoimporter}

The [`For`](/pkg/go/importer/#For) function now accepts a non-nil lookup
argument.

#### [go/printer](/pkg/go/printer/) {#goprinterpkggoprinter}

The changes to the default formatting of Go source code discussed in the
[gofmt section](#gofmt) above are implemented in the
[go/printer](/pkg/go/printer/) package and also affect the output of the
higher-level [go/format](/pkg/go/format/) package.

#### [hash](/pkg/hash/) {#hashpkghash}

Implementations of the [`Hash`](/pkg/hash/#Hash) interface are now
encouraged to implement
[`encoding.BinaryMarshaler`](/pkg/encoding/#BinaryMarshaler) and
[`encoding.BinaryUnmarshaler`](/pkg/encoding/#BinaryUnmarshaler) to
allow saving and recreating their internal state, and all
implementations in the standard library ([hash/crc32](/pkg/hash/crc32/),
[crypto/sha256](/pkg/crypto/sha256/), and so on) now implement those
interfaces.

#### [html/template](/pkg/html/template/) {#htmltemplatepkghtmltemplate}

The new [`Srcset`](/pkg/html/template#Srcset) content type allows for
proper handling of values within the
[`srcset`](https://w3c.github.io/html/semantics-embedded-content.html#element-attrdef-img-srcset){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"} attribute of `img` tags.

#### [math/big](/pkg/math/big/) {#mathbigpkgmathbig}

[`Int`](/pkg/math/big/#Int) now supports conversions to and from bases 2
through 62 in its [`SetString`](/pkg/math/big/#Int.SetString) and
[`Text`](/pkg/math/big/#Text) methods. (Previously it only allowed bases
2 through 36.) The value of the constant `MaxBase` has been updated.

[`Int`](/pkg/math/big/#Int) adds a new [`CmpAbs`](/pkg/math/big/#CmpAbs)
method that is like [`Cmp`](/pkg/math/big/#Cmp) but compares only the
absolute values (not the signs) of its arguments.

[`Float`](/pkg/math/big/#Float) adds a new
[`Sqrt`](/pkg/math/big/#Float.Sqrt) method to compute square roots.

#### [math/cmplx](/pkg/math/cmplx/) {#mathcmplxpkgmathcmplx}

Branch cuts and other boundary cases in [`Asin`](/pkg/math/cmplx/#Asin),
[`Asinh`](/pkg/math/cmplx/#Asinh), [`Atan`](/pkg/math/cmplx/#Atan), and
[`Sqrt`](/pkg/math/cmplx/#Sqrt) have been corrected to match the
definitions used in the C99 standard.

#### [math/rand](/pkg/math/rand/) {#mathrandpkgmathrand}

The new [`Shuffle`](/pkg/math/rand/#Shuffle) function and corresponding
[`Rand.Shuffle`](/pkg/math/rand/#Rand.Shuffle) method shuffle an input
sequence.

#### [math](/pkg/math/) {#mathpkgmath}

The new functions [`Round`](/pkg/math/#Round) and
[`RoundToEven`](/pkg/math/#RoundToEven) round their arguments to the
nearest floating-point integer; `Round` rounds a half-integer to its
larger integer neighbor (away from zero) while `RoundToEven` rounds a
half-integer to its even integer neighbor.

The new functions [`Erfinv`](/pkg/math/#Erfinv) and
[`Erfcinv`](/pkg/math/#Erfcinv) compute the inverse error function and
the inverse complementary error function.

#### [mime/multipart](/pkg/mime/multipart/) {#mimemultipartpkgmimemultipart}

[`Reader`](/pkg/mime/multipart/#Reader) now accepts parts with empty
filename attributes.

#### [mime](/pkg/mime/) {#mimepkgmime}

[`ParseMediaType`](/pkg/mime/#ParseMediaType) now discards invalid
attribute values; previously it returned those values as empty strings.

#### [net](/pkg/net/) {#netpkgnet}

The [`Conn`](/pkg/net/#Conn) and [`Listener`](/pkg/net/#Conn)
implementations in this package now guarantee that when `Close` returns,
the underlying file descriptor has been closed. (In earlier releases, if
the `Close` stopped pending I/O in other goroutines, the closing of the
file descriptor could happen in one of those goroutines shortly after
`Close` returned.)

[`TCPListener`](/pkg/net/#TCPListener) and
[`UnixListener`](/pkg/net/#UnixListener) now implement
[`syscall.Conn`](/pkg/syscall/#Conn), to allow setting options on the
underlying file descriptor using
[`syscall.RawConn.Control`](/pkg/syscall/#RawConn).

The `Conn` implementations returned by [`Pipe`](/pkg/net/#Pipe) now
support setting read and write deadlines.

The [`IPConn.ReadMsgIP`](/pkg/net/#IPConn.ReadMsgIP),
[`IPConn.WriteMsgIP`](/pkg/net/#IPConn.WriteMsgIP),
[`UDPConn.ReadMsgUDP`](/pkg/net/#UDPConn.ReadMsgUDP), and
[`UDPConn.WriteMsgUDP`](/pkg/net/#UDPConn.WriteMsgUDP), methods are now
implemented on Windows.

#### [net/http](/pkg/net/http/) {#nethttppkgnethttp}

On the client side, an HTTP proxy (most commonly configured by
[`ProxyFromEnvironment`](/pkg/net/http/#ProxyFromEnvironment)) can now
be specified as an `https://` URL, meaning that the client connects to
the proxy over HTTPS before issuing a standard, proxied HTTP request.
(Previously, HTTP proxy URLs were required to begin with `http://` or
`socks5://`.)

On the server side, [`FileServer`](/pkg/net/http/#FileServer) and its
single-file equivalent [`ServeFile`](/pkg/net/http/#ServeFile) now apply
`If-Range` checks to `HEAD` requests. `FileServer` also now reports
directory read failures to the [`Server`](/pkg/net/http/#Server)'s
`ErrorLog`. The content-serving handlers also now omit the
`Content-Type` header when serving zero-length content.

[`ResponseWriter`](/pkg/net/http/#ResponseWriter)'s `WriteHeader` method
now panics if passed an invalid (non-3-digit) status code.

The `Server` will no longer add an implicit Content-Type when a
`Handler` does not write any output.

[`Redirect`](/pkg/net/http/#Redirect) now sets the `Content-Type` header
before writing its HTTP response.

#### [net/mail](/pkg/net/mail/) {#netmailpkgnetmail}

[`ParseAddress`](/pkg/net/mail/#ParseAddress) and
[`ParseAddressList`](/pkg/net/mail/#ParseAddressList) now support a
variety of obsolete address formats.

#### [net/smtp](/pkg/net/smtp/) {#netsmtppkgnetsmtp}

The [`Client`](/pkg/net/smtp/#Client) adds a new
[`Noop`](/pkg/net/smtp/#Client.Noop) method, to test whether the server
is still responding. It also now defends against possible SMTP injection
in the inputs to the [`Hello`](/pkg/net/smtp/#Client.Hello) and
[`Verify`](/pkg/net/smtp/#Client.Verify) methods.

#### [net/textproto](/pkg/net/textproto/) {#nettextprotopkgnettextproto}

[`ReadMIMEHeader`](/pkg/net/textproto/#ReadMIMEHeader) now rejects any
header that begins with a continuation (indented) header line.
Previously a header with an indented first line was treated as if the
first line were not indented.

#### [net/url](/pkg/net/url/) {#neturlpkgneturl}

[`ResolveReference`](/pkg/net/url/#ResolveReference) now preserves
multiple leading slashes in the target URL. Previously it rewrote
multiple leading slashes to a single slash, which resulted in the
[`http.Client`](/pkg/net/http/#Client) following certain redirects
incorrectly.

For example, this code's output has changed:

    base, _ := url.Parse("http://host//path//to/page1")
    target, _ := url.Parse("page2")
    fmt.Println(base.ResolveReference(target))

Note the doubled slashes around `path`. In Go 1.9 and earlier, the
resolved URL was `http://host/path//to/page2`: the doubled slash before
`path` was incorrectly rewritten to a single slash, while the doubled
slash after `path` was correctly preserved. Go 1.10 preserves both
doubled slashes, resolving to `http://host//path//to/page2` as required
by [RFC
3986](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986#section-5.2){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"}.

This change may break existing buggy programs that unintentionally
construct a base URL with a leading doubled slash in the path and
inadvertently depend on `ResolveReference` to correct that mistake. For
example, this can happen if code adds a host prefix like `http://host/`
to a path like `/my/api`, resulting in a URL with a doubled slash:
`http://host//my/api`.

[`UserInfo`](/pkg/net/url/#UserInfo)'s methods now treat a nil receiver
as equivalent to a pointer to a zero `UserInfo`. Previously, they
panicked.

#### [os](/pkg/os/) {#ospkgos}

[`File`](/pkg/os/#File) adds new methods
[`SetDeadline`](/pkg/os/#File.SetDeadline),
[`SetReadDeadline`](/pkg/os/#File.SetReadDeadline), and
[`SetWriteDeadline`](/pkg/os/#File.SetWriteDeadline) that allow setting
I/O deadlines when the underlying file descriptor supports non-blocking
I/O operations. The definition of these methods matches those in
[`net.Conn`](/pkg/net/#Conn). If an I/O method fails due to missing a
deadline, it will return a timeout error; the new
[`IsTimeout`](/pkg/os/#IsTimeout) function reports whether an error
represents a timeout.

Also matching `net.Conn`, `File`'s [`Close`](/pkg/os/#File.Close) method
now guarantee that when `Close` returns, the underlying file descriptor
has been closed. (In earlier releases, if the `Close` stopped pending
I/O in other goroutines, the closing of the file descriptor could happen
in one of those goroutines shortly after `Close` returned.)

On BSD, macOS, and Solaris systems, [`Chtimes`](/pkg/os/#Chtimes) now
supports setting file times with nanosecond precision (assuming the
underlying file system can represent them).

#### [reflect](/pkg/reflect/) {#reflectpkgreflect}

The [`Copy`](/pkg/reflect/#Copy) function now allows copying from a
string into a byte array or byte slice, to match the [built-in copy
function](/pkg/builtin/#copy).

In structs, embedded pointers to unexported struct types were previously
incorrectly reported with an empty `PkgPath` in the corresponding
[StructField](/pkg/reflect/#StructField), with the result that for those
fields, and [`Value.CanSet`](/pkg/reflect/#Value.CanSet) incorrectly
returned true and [`Value.Set`](/pkg/reflect/#Value.Set) incorrectly
succeeded. The underlying metadata has been corrected; for those fields,
`CanSet` now correctly returns false and `Set` now correctly panics.
This may affect reflection-based unmarshalers that could previously
unmarshal into such fields but no longer can. For example, see the
[`encoding/json` notes](#encoding/json).

#### [runtime/pprof](/pkg/runtime/pprof/) {#runtimepprofpkgruntimepprof}

As [noted above](#pprof), the blocking and mutex profiles now include
symbol information so that they can be viewed without needing the binary
that generated them.

#### [strconv](/pkg/strconv/) {#strconvpkgstrconv}

[`ParseUint`](/pkg/strconv/#ParseUint) now returns the maximum magnitude
integer of the appropriate size with any `ErrRange` error, as it was
already documented to do. Previously it returned 0 with `ErrRange`
errors.

#### [strings](/pkg/strings/) {#stringspkgstrings}

A new type [`Builder`](/pkg/strings/#Builder) is a replacement for
[`bytes.Buffer`](/pkg/bytes/#Buffer) for the use case of accumulating
text into a `string` result. The `Builder`'s API is a restricted subset
of `bytes.Buffer`'s that allows it to safely avoid making a duplicate
copy of the data during the [`String`](/pkg/strings/#Builder.String)
method.

#### [syscall](/pkg/syscall/) {#syscallpkgsyscall}

On Windows, the new [`SysProcAttr`](/pkg/syscall/#SysProcAttr) field
`Token`, of type [`Token`](/pkg/syscall/#Token) allows the creation of a
process that runs as another user during
[`StartProcess`](/pkg/syscall/#StartProcess) (and therefore also during
[`os.StartProcess`](/pkg/os/#StartProcess) and
[`exec.Cmd.Start`](/pkg/os/exec/#Cmd.Start)). The new function
[`CreateProcessAsUser`](/pkg/syscall/#CreateProcessAsUser) gives access
to the underlying system call.

On BSD, macOS, and Solaris systems,
[`UtimesNano`](/pkg/syscall/#UtimesNano) is now implemented.

#### [time](/pkg/time/) {#timepkgtime}

[`LoadLocation`](/pkg/time/#LoadLocation) now uses the directory or
uncompressed zip file named by the `$ZONEINFO` environment variable
before looking in the default system-specific list of known installation
locations or in `$GOROOT/lib/time/zoneinfo.zip`.

The new function
[`LoadLocationFromTZData`](/pkg/time/#LoadLocationFromTZData) allows
conversion of IANA time zone file data to a
[`Location`](/pkg/time/#Location).

#### [unicode](/pkg/unicode/) {#unicodepkgunicode}

The [`unicode`](/pkg/unicode/) package and associated support throughout
the system has been upgraded from Unicode 9.0 to [Unicode
10.0](https://www.unicode.org/versions/Unicode10.0.0/){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"}, which adds 8,518 new characters, including four new
scripts, one new property, a Bitcoin currency symbol, and 56 new emoji.
:::
:::::
