::::: {#main-content .SiteContent .SiteContent--default role="main"}
# Go 1.12 Release Notes

::: {#nav .TOC}
:::

::: markdown
## Introduction to Go 1.12 {#introduction}

The latest Go release, version 1.12, arrives six months after [Go
1.11](go1.11). Most of its changes are in the implementation of the
toolchain, runtime, and libraries. As always, the release maintains the
Go 1 [promise of compatibility](/doc/go1compat). We expect almost all Go
programs to continue to compile and run as before.

## Changes to the language {#language}

There are no changes to the language specification.

## Ports

The race detector is now supported on `linux/arm64`.

Go 1.12 is the last release that is supported on FreeBSD 10.x, which has
already reached end-of-life. Go 1.13 will require FreeBSD 11.2+ or
FreeBSD 12.0+. FreeBSD 12.0+ requires a kernel with the COMPAT_FREEBSD11
option set (this is the default).

cgo is now supported on `linux/ppc64`.

`hurd` is now a recognized value for `GOOS`, reserved for the GNU/Hurd
system for use with `gccgo`.

### Windows

Go's new `windows/arm` port supports running Go on Windows 10 IoT Core
on 32-bit ARM chips such as the Raspberry Pi 3.

### AIX

Go now supports AIX 7.2 and later on POWER8 architectures (`aix/ppc64`).
External linking, cgo, pprof and the race detector aren't yet supported.

### Darwin

Go 1.12 is the last release that will run on macOS 10.10 Yosemite. Go
1.13 will require macOS 10.11 El Capitan or later.

`libSystem` is now used when making syscalls on Darwin, ensuring
forward-compatibility with future versions of macOS and iOS. The switch
to `libSystem` triggered additional App Store checks for private API
usage. Since it is considered private, `syscall.Getdirentries` now
always fails with `ENOSYS` on iOS. Additionally,
[`syscall.Setrlimit`](/pkg/syscall/#Setrlimit) reports `invalid`
`argument` in places where it historically succeeded. These consequences
are not specific to Go and users should expect behavioral parity with
`libSystem`'s implementation going forward.

## Tools

### `go tool vet` no longer supported {#vet}

The `go vet` command has been rewritten to serve as the base for a range
of different source code analysis tools. See the
[golang.org/x/tools/go/analysis](https://godoc.org/golang.org/x/tools/go/analysis){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"} package for details. A side-effect is that
`go tool vet` is no longer supported. External tools that use
`go tool vet` must be changed to use `go vet`. Using `go vet` instead of
`go tool vet` should work with all supported versions of Go.

As part of this change, the experimental `-shadow` option is no longer
available with `go vet`. Checking for variable shadowing may now be done
using

    go get -u golang.org/x/tools/go/analysis/passes/shadow/cmd/shadow
    go vet -vettool=$(which shadow)

### Tour

The Go tour is no longer included in the main binary distribution. To
run the tour locally, instead of running `go` `tool` `tour`, manually
install it:

    go get -u golang.org/x/tour
    tour

### Build cache requirement {#gocache}

The [build cache](/cmd/go/#hdr-Build_and_test_caching) is now required
as a step toward eliminating `$GOPATH/pkg`. Setting the environment
variable `GOCACHE=off` will cause `go` commands that write to the cache
to fail.

### Binary-only packages {#binary-only}

Go 1.12 is the last release that will support binary-only packages.

### Cgo

Go 1.12 will translate the C type `EGLDisplay` to the Go type `uintptr`.
This change is similar to how Go 1.10 and newer treats Darwin's
CoreFoundation and Java's JNI types. See the [cgo
documentation](/cmd/cgo/#hdr-Special_cases) for more information.

Mangled C names are no longer accepted in packages that use Cgo. Use the
Cgo names instead. For example, use the documented cgo name `C.char`
rather than the mangled name `_Ctype_char` that cgo generates.

### Modules

When `GO111MODULE` is set to `on`, the `go` command now supports
module-aware operations outside of a module directory, provided that
those operations do not need to resolve import paths relative to the
current directory or explicitly edit the `go.mod` file. Commands such as
`go` `get`, `go` `list`, and `go` `mod` `download` behave as if in a
module with initially-empty requirements. In this mode,
`go` `env` `GOMOD` reports the system's null device (`/dev/null` or
`NUL`).

`go` commands that download and extract modules are now safe to invoke
concurrently. The module cache (`GOPATH/pkg/mod`) must reside in a
filesystem that supports file locking.

The `go` directive in a `go.mod` file now indicates the version of the
language used by the files within that module. It will be set to the
current release (`go` `1.12`) if no existing version is present. If the
`go` directive for a module specifies a version *newer* than the
toolchain in use, the `go` command will attempt to build the packages
regardless, and will note the mismatch only if that build fails.

This changed use of the `go` directive means that if you use Go 1.12 to
build a module, thus recording `go 1.12` in the `go.mod` file, you will
get an error when attempting to build the same module with Go 1.11
through Go 1.11.3. Go 1.11.4 or later will work fine, as will releases
older than Go 1.11. If you must use Go 1.11 through 1.11.3, you can
avoid the problem by setting the language version to 1.11, using the Go
1.12 go tool, via `go mod edit -go=1.11`.

When an import cannot be resolved using the active modules, the `go`
command will now try to use the modules mentioned in the main module's
`replace` directives before consulting the module cache and the usual
network sources. If a matching replacement is found but the `replace`
directive does not specify a version, the `go` command uses a
pseudo-version derived from the zero `time.Time` (such as
`v0.0.0-00010101000000-000000000000`).

### Compiler toolchain {#compiler}

The compiler's live variable analysis has improved. This may mean that
finalizers will be executed sooner in this release than in previous
releases. If that is a problem, consider the appropriate addition of a
[`runtime.KeepAlive`](/pkg/runtime/#KeepAlive) call.

More functions are now eligible for inlining by default, including
functions that do nothing but call another function. This extra inlining
makes it additionally important to use
[`runtime.CallersFrames`](/pkg/runtime/#CallersFrames) instead of
iterating over the result of [`runtime.Callers`](/pkg/runtime/#Callers)
directly.

    // Old code which no longer works correctly (it will miss inlined call frames).
    var pcs [10]uintptr
    n := runtime.Callers(1, pcs[:])
    for _, pc := range pcs[:n] {
        f := runtime.FuncForPC(pc)
        if f != nil {
            fmt.Println(f.Name())
        }
    }

    // New code which will work correctly.
    var pcs [10]uintptr
    n := runtime.Callers(1, pcs[:])
    frames := runtime.CallersFrames(pcs[:n])
    for {
        frame, more := frames.Next()
        fmt.Println(frame.Function)
        if !more {
            break
        }
    }

Wrappers generated by the compiler to implement method expressions are
no longer reported by
[`runtime.CallersFrames`](/pkg/runtime/#CallersFrames) and
[`runtime.Stack`](/pkg/runtime/#Stack). They are also not printed in
panic stack traces. This change aligns the `gc` toolchain to match the
`gccgo` toolchain, which already elided such wrappers from stack traces.
Clients of these APIs might need to adjust for the missing frames. For
code that must interoperate between 1.11 and 1.12 releases, you can
replace the method expression `x.M` with the function literal
`func (...) { x.M(...) } `.

The compiler now accepts a `-lang` flag to set the Go language version
to use. For example, `-lang=go1.8` causes the compiler to emit an error
if the program uses type aliases, which were added in Go 1.9. Language
changes made before Go 1.12 are not consistently enforced.

The compiler toolchain now uses different conventions to call Go
functions and assembly functions. This should be invisible to users,
except for calls that simultaneously cross between Go and assembly *and*
cross a package boundary. If linking results in an error like
"relocation target not defined for ABIInternal (but is defined for
ABI0)", please refer to the [compatibility
section](https://github.com/golang/proposal/blob/master/design/27539-internal-abi.md#compatibility){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"} of the ABI design document.

There have been many improvements to the DWARF debug information
produced by the compiler, including improvements to argument printing
and variable location information.

Go programs now also maintain stack frame pointers on `linux/arm64` for
the benefit of profiling tools like `perf`. The frame pointer
maintenance has a small run-time overhead that varies but averages
around 3%. To build a toolchain that does not use frame pointers, set
`GOEXPERIMENT=noframepointer` when running `make.bash`.

The obsolete "safe" compiler mode (enabled by the `-u` gcflag) has been
removed.

### `godoc` and `go` `doc` {#godoc}

In Go 1.12, `godoc` no longer has a command-line interface and is only a
web server. Users should use `go` `doc` for command-line help output
instead. Go 1.12 is the last release that will include the `godoc`
webserver; in Go 1.13 it will be available via `go` `get`.

`go` `doc` now supports the `-all` flag, which will cause it to print
all exported APIs and their documentation, as the `godoc` command line
used to do.

`go` `doc` also now includes the `-src` flag, which will show the
target's source code.

### Trace

The trace tool now supports plotting mutator utilization curves,
including cross-references to the execution trace. These are useful for
analyzing the impact of the garbage collector on application latency and
throughput.

### Assembler

On `arm64`, the platform register was renamed from `R18` to
`R18_PLATFORM` to prevent accidental use, as the OS could choose to
reserve this register.

## Runtime

Go 1.12 significantly improves the performance of sweeping when a large
fraction of the heap remains live. This reduces allocation latency
immediately following a garbage collection.

The Go runtime now releases memory back to the operating system more
aggressively, particularly in response to large allocations that can't
reuse existing heap space.

The Go runtime's timer and deadline code is faster and scales better
with higher numbers of CPUs. In particular, this improves the
performance of manipulating network connection deadlines.

On Linux, the runtime now uses `MADV_FREE` to release unused memory.
This is more efficient but may result in higher reported RSS. The kernel
will reclaim the unused data when it is needed. To revert to the Go 1.11
behavior (`MADV_DONTNEED`), set the environment variable
`GODEBUG=madvdontneed=1`.

Adding cpu.*extension*=off to the
[GODEBUG](/doc/diagnostics.html#godebug) environment variable now
disables the use of optional CPU instruction set extensions in the
standard library and runtime. This is not yet supported on Windows.

Go 1.12 improves the accuracy of memory profiles by fixing overcounting
of large heap allocations.

Tracebacks, `runtime.Caller`, and `runtime.Callers` no longer include
compiler-generated initialization functions. Doing a traceback during
the initialization of a global variable will now show a function named
`PKG.init.ializers`.

## Standard library {#library}

### TLS 1.3 {#tls_1_3}

Go 1.12 adds opt-in support for TLS 1.3 in the `crypto/tls` package as
specified by [RFC
8446](https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"}. It can be enabled by adding the value `tls13=1` to the
`GODEBUG` environment variable. It will be enabled by default in Go
1.13.

To negotiate TLS 1.3, make sure you do not set an explicit `MaxVersion`
in [`Config`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#Config) and run your program with the
environment variable `GODEBUG=tls13=1` set.

All TLS 1.2 features except `TLSUnique` in
[`ConnectionState`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#ConnectionState) and renegotiation
are available in TLS 1.3 and provide equivalent or better security and
performance. Note that even though TLS 1.3 is backwards compatible with
previous versions, certain legacy systems might not work correctly when
attempting to negotiate it. RSA certificate keys too small to be secure
(including 512-bit keys) will not work with TLS 1.3.

TLS 1.3 cipher suites are not configurable. All supported cipher suites
are safe, and if `PreferServerCipherSuites` is set in
[`Config`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#Config) the preference order is based on the
available hardware.

Early data (also called "0-RTT mode") is not currently supported as a
client or server. Additionally, a Go 1.12 server does not support
skipping unexpected early data if a client sends it. Since TLS 1.3 0-RTT
mode involves clients keeping state regarding which servers support
0-RTT, a Go 1.12 server cannot be part of a load-balancing pool where
some other servers do support 0-RTT. If switching a domain from a server
that supported 0-RTT to a Go 1.12 server, 0-RTT would have to be
disabled for at least the lifetime of the issued session tickets before
the switch to ensure uninterrupted operation.

In TLS 1.3 the client is the last one to speak in the handshake, so if
it causes an error to occur on the server, it will be returned on the
client by the first [`Read`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#Conn.Read), not by
[`Handshake`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#Conn.Handshake). For example, that will
be the case if the server rejects the client certificate. Similarly,
session tickets are now post-handshake messages, so are only received by
the client upon its first [`Read`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#Conn.Read).

### Minor changes to the library {#minor_library_changes}

As always, there are various minor changes and updates to the library,
made with the Go 1 [promise of compatibility](/doc/go1compat) in mind.

#### [bufio](/pkg/bufio/) {#bufiopkgbufio}

`Reader`'s [`UnreadRune`](/pkg/bufio/#Reader.UnreadRune) and
[`UnreadByte`](/pkg/bufio/#Reader.UnreadByte) methods will now return an
error if they are called after [`Peek`](/pkg/bufio/#Reader.Peek).

#### [bytes](/pkg/bytes/) {#bytespkgbytes}

The new function [`ReplaceAll`](/pkg/bytes/#ReplaceAll) returns a copy
of a byte slice with all non-overlapping instances of a value replaced
by another.

A pointer to a zero-value [`Reader`](/pkg/bytes/#Reader) is now
functionally equivalent to [`NewReader`](/pkg/bytes/#NewReader)`(nil)`.
Prior to Go 1.12, the former could not be used as a substitute for the
latter in all cases.

#### [crypto/rand](/pkg/crypto/rand/) {#cryptorandpkgcryptorand}

A warning will now be printed to standard error the first time
`Reader.Read` is blocked for more than 60 seconds waiting to read
entropy from the kernel.

On FreeBSD, `Reader` now uses the `getrandom` system call if available,
`/dev/urandom` otherwise.

#### [crypto/rc4](/pkg/crypto/rc4/) {#cryptorc4pkgcryptorc4}

This release removes the assembly implementations, leaving only the pure
Go version. The Go compiler generates code that is either slightly
better or slightly worse, depending on the exact CPU. RC4 is insecure
and should only be used for compatibility with legacy systems.

#### [crypto/tls](/pkg/crypto/tls/) {#cryptotlspkgcryptotls}

If a client sends an initial message that does not look like TLS, the
server will no longer reply with an alert, and it will expose the
underlying `net.Conn` in the new field `Conn` of
[`RecordHeaderError`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#RecordHeaderError).

#### [database/sql](/pkg/database/sql/) {#databasesqlpkgdatabasesql}

A query cursor can now be obtained by passing a
[`*Rows`](/pkg/database/sql/#Rows) value to the
[`Row.Scan`](/pkg/database/sql/#Row.Scan) method.

#### [expvar](/pkg/expvar/) {#expvarpkgexpvar}

The new [`Delete`](/pkg/expvar/#Map.Delete) method allows for deletion
of key/value pairs from a [`Map`](/pkg/expvar/#Map).

#### [fmt](/pkg/fmt/) {#fmtpkgfmt}

Maps are now printed in key-sorted order to ease testing. The ordering
rules are:

- When applicable, nil compares low
- ints, floats, and strings order by \<
- NaN compares less than non-NaN floats
- bool compares false before true
- Complex compares real, then imaginary
- Pointers compare by machine address
- Channel values compare by machine address
- Structs compare each field in turn
- Arrays compare each element in turn
- Interface values compare first by `reflect.Type` describing the
  concrete type and then by concrete value as described in the previous
  rules.

When printing maps, non-reflexive key values like `NaN` were previously
displayed as `<nil>`. As of this release, the correct values are
printed.

#### [go/doc](/pkg/go/doc/) {#godocpkggodoc}

To address some outstanding issues in [`cmd/doc`](/cmd/doc/), this
package has a new [`Mode`](/pkg/go/doc/#Mode) bit, `PreserveAST`, which
controls whether AST data is cleared.

#### [go/token](/pkg/go/token/) {#gotokenpkggotoken}

The [`File`](/pkg/go/token#File) type has a new
[`LineStart`](/pkg/go/token#File.LineStart) field, which returns the
position of the start of a given line. This is especially useful in
programs that occasionally handle non-Go files, such as assembly, but
wish to use the `token.Pos` mechanism to identify file positions.

#### [image](/pkg/image/) {#imagepkgimage}

The [`RegisterFormat`](/pkg/image/#RegisterFormat) function is now safe
for concurrent use.

#### [image/png](/pkg/image/png/) {#imagepngpkgimagepng}

Paletted images with fewer than 16 colors now encode to smaller outputs.

#### [io](/pkg/io/) {#iopkgio}

The new [`StringWriter`](/pkg/io#StringWriter) interface wraps the
[`WriteString`](/pkg/io/#WriteString) function.

#### [math](/pkg/math/) {#mathpkgmath}

The functions [`Sin`](/pkg/math/#Sin), [`Cos`](/pkg/math/#Cos),
[`Tan`](/pkg/math/#Tan), and [`Sincos`](/pkg/math/#Sincos) now apply
Payne-Hanek range reduction to huge arguments. This produces more
accurate answers, but they will not be bit-for-bit identical with the
results in earlier releases.

#### [math/bits](/pkg/math/bits/) {#mathbitspkgmathbits}

New extended precision operations [`Add`](/pkg/math/bits/#Add),
[`Sub`](/pkg/math/bits/#Sub), [`Mul`](/pkg/math/bits/#Mul), and
[`Div`](/pkg/math/bits/#Div) are available in `uint`, `uint32`, and
`uint64` versions.

#### [net](/pkg/net/) {#netpkgnet}

The [`Dialer.DualStack`](/pkg/net/#Dialer.DualStack) setting is now
ignored and deprecated; RFC 6555 Fast Fallback ("Happy Eyeballs") is now
enabled by default. To disable, set
[`Dialer.FallbackDelay`](/pkg/net/#Dialer.FallbackDelay) to a negative
value.

Similarly, TCP keep-alives are now enabled by default if
[`Dialer.KeepAlive`](/pkg/net/#Dialer.KeepAlive) is zero. To disable,
set it to a negative value.

On Linux, the [`splice` system
call](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/splice.2.html){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"} is now used when copying from a
[`UnixConn`](/pkg/net/#UnixConn) to a [`TCPConn`](/pkg/net/#TCPConn).

#### [net/http](/pkg/net/http/) {#nethttppkgnethttp}

The HTTP server now rejects misdirected HTTP requests to HTTPS servers
with a plaintext "400 Bad Request" response.

The new
[`Client.CloseIdleConnections`](/pkg/net/http/#Client.CloseIdleConnections)
method calls the `Client`'s underlying `Transport`'s
`CloseIdleConnections` if it has one.

The [`Transport`](/pkg/net/http/#Transport) no longer rejects HTTP
responses which declare HTTP Trailers but don't use chunked encoding.
Instead, the declared trailers are now just ignored.

The [`Transport`](/pkg/net/http/#Transport) no longer handles
`MAX_CONCURRENT_STREAMS` values advertised from HTTP/2 servers as
strictly as it did during Go 1.10 and Go 1.11. The default behavior is
now back to how it was in Go 1.9: each connection to a server can have
up to `MAX_CONCURRENT_STREAMS` requests active and then new TCP
connections are created as needed. In Go 1.10 and Go 1.11 the `http2`
package would block and wait for requests to finish instead of creating
new connections. To get the stricter behavior back, import the
[`golang.org/x/net/http2`](https://godoc.org/golang.org/x/net/http2){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"} package directly and set
[`Transport.StrictMaxConcurrentStreams`](https://godoc.org/golang.org/x/net/http2#Transport.StrictMaxConcurrentStreams){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"} to `true`.

#### [net/url](/pkg/net/url/) {#neturlpkgneturl}

[`Parse`](/pkg/net/url/#Parse),
[`ParseRequestURI`](/pkg/net/url/#ParseRequestURI), and
[`URL.Parse`](/pkg/net/url/#URL.Parse) now return an error for URLs
containing ASCII control characters, which includes NULL, tab, and
newlines.

#### [net/http/httputil](/pkg/net/http/httputil/) {#nethttphttputilpkgnethttphttputil}

The [`ReverseProxy`](/pkg/net/http/httputil/#ReverseProxy) now
automatically proxies WebSocket requests.

#### [os](/pkg/os/) {#ospkgos}

The new [`ProcessState.ExitCode`](/pkg/os/#ProcessState.ExitCode) method
returns the process's exit code.

`ModeCharDevice` has been added to the `ModeType` bitmask, allowing for
`ModeDevice | ModeCharDevice` to be recovered when masking a
[`FileMode`](/pkg/os/#FileMode) with `ModeType`.

The new function [`UserHomeDir`](/pkg/os/#UserHomeDir) returns the
current user's home directory.

[`RemoveAll`](/pkg/os/#RemoveAll) now supports paths longer than 4096
characters on most Unix systems.

[`File.Sync`](/pkg/os/#File.Sync) now uses `F_FULLFSYNC` on macOS to
correctly flush the file contents to permanent storage. This may cause
the method to run more slowly than in previous releases.

[`File`](/pkg/os/#File) now supports a
[`SyscallConn`](/pkg/os/#File.SyscallConn) method returning a
[`syscall.RawConn`](/pkg/syscall/#RawConn) interface value. This may be
used to invoke system-specific operations on the underlying file
descriptor.

#### [path/filepath](/pkg/path/filepath/) {#pathfilepathpkgpathfilepath}

The [`IsAbs`](/pkg/path/filepath/#IsAbs) function now returns true when
passed a reserved filename on Windows such as `NUL`. [List of reserved
names.](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/desktop/fileio/naming-a-file#naming-conventions){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"}

#### [reflect](/pkg/reflect/) {#reflectpkgreflect}

A new [`MapIter`](/pkg/reflect#MapIter) type is an iterator for ranging
over a map. This type is exposed through the
[`Value`](/pkg/reflect#Value) type's new
[`MapRange`](/pkg/reflect#Value.MapRange) method. This follows the same
iteration semantics as a range statement, with `Next` to advance the
iterator, and `Key`/`Value` to access each entry.

#### [regexp](/pkg/regexp/) {#regexppkgregexp}

[`Copy`](/pkg/regexp/#Regexp.Copy) is no longer necessary to avoid lock
contention, so it has been given a partial deprecation comment.
[`Copy`](/pkg/regexp/#Regexp.Copy) may still be appropriate if the
reason for its use is to make two copies with different
[`Longest`](/pkg/regexp/#Regexp.Longest) settings.

#### [runtime/debug](/pkg/runtime/debug/) {#runtimedebugpkgruntimedebug}

A new [`BuildInfo`](/pkg/runtime/debug/#BuildInfo) type exposes the
build information read from the running binary, available only in
binaries built with module support. This includes the main package path,
main module information, and the module dependencies. This type is given
through the [`ReadBuildInfo`](/pkg/runtime/debug/#ReadBuildInfo)
function on [`BuildInfo`](/pkg/runtime/debug/#BuildInfo).

#### [strings](/pkg/strings/) {#stringspkgstrings}

The new function [`ReplaceAll`](/pkg/strings/#ReplaceAll) returns a copy
of a string with all non-overlapping instances of a value replaced by
another.

A pointer to a zero-value [`Reader`](/pkg/strings/#Reader) is now
functionally equivalent to
[`NewReader`](/pkg/strings/#NewReader)`(nil)`. Prior to Go 1.12, the
former could not be used as a substitute for the latter in all cases.

The new [`Builder.Cap`](/pkg/strings/#Builder.Cap) method returns the
capacity of the builder's underlying byte slice.

The character mapping functions [`Map`](/pkg/strings/#Map),
[`Title`](/pkg/strings/#Title), [`ToLower`](/pkg/strings/#ToLower),
[`ToLowerSpecial`](/pkg/strings/#ToLowerSpecial),
[`ToTitle`](/pkg/strings/#ToTitle),
[`ToTitleSpecial`](/pkg/strings/#ToTitleSpecial),
[`ToUpper`](/pkg/strings/#ToUpper), and
[`ToUpperSpecial`](/pkg/strings/#ToUpperSpecial) now always guarantee to
return valid UTF-8. In earlier releases, if the input was invalid UTF-8
but no character replacements needed to be applied, these routines
incorrectly returned the invalid UTF-8 unmodified.

#### [syscall](/pkg/syscall/) {#syscallpkgsyscall}

64-bit inodes are now supported on FreeBSD 12. Some types have been
adjusted accordingly.

The Unix socket
([`AF_UNIX`](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/commandline/2017/12/19/af_unix-comes-to-windows/){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"}) address family is now supported for compatible
versions of Windows.

The new function
[`Syscall18`](/pkg/syscall/?GOOS=windows&GOARCH=amd64#Syscall18) has
been introduced for Windows, allowing for calls with up to 18 arguments.

#### [syscall/js](/pkg/syscall/js/) {#syscalljspkgsyscalljs}

The `Callback` type and `NewCallback` function have been renamed; they
are now called [`Func`](/pkg/syscall/js/?GOOS=js&GOARCH=wasm#Func) and
[`FuncOf`](/pkg/syscall/js/?GOOS=js&GOARCH=wasm#FuncOf), respectively.
This is a breaking change, but WebAssembly support is still experimental
and not yet subject to the [Go 1 compatibility promise](/doc/go1compat).
Any code using the old names will need to be updated.

If a type implements the new
[`Wrapper`](/pkg/syscall/js/?GOOS=js&GOARCH=wasm#Wrapper) interface,
[`ValueOf`](/pkg/syscall/js/?GOOS=js&GOARCH=wasm#ValueOf) will use it to
return the JavaScript value for that type.

The meaning of the zero
[`Value`](/pkg/syscall/js/?GOOS=js&GOARCH=wasm#Value) has changed. It
now represents the JavaScript `undefined` value instead of the number
zero. This is a breaking change, but WebAssembly support is still
experimental and not yet subject to the [Go 1 compatibility
promise](/doc/go1compat). Any code relying on the zero
[`Value`](/pkg/syscall/js/?GOOS=js&GOARCH=wasm#Value) to mean the number
zero will need to be updated.

The new
[`Value.Truthy`](/pkg/syscall/js/?GOOS=js&GOARCH=wasm#Value.Truthy)
method reports the [JavaScript
"truthiness"](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Truthy){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"} of a given value.

#### [testing](/pkg/testing/) {#testingpkgtesting}

The [`-benchtime`](/cmd/go/#hdr-Testing_flags) flag now supports setting
an explicit iteration count instead of a time when the value ends with
an "`x`". For example, `-benchtime=100x` runs the benchmark 100 times.

#### [text/template](/pkg/text/template/) {#texttemplatepkgtexttemplate}

When executing a template, long context values are no longer truncated
in errors.

`executing "tmpl" at <.very.deep.context.v...>: map has no entry for key "notpresent"`

is now

`executing "tmpl" at <.very.deep.context.value.notpresent>: map has no entry for key "notpresent"`

If a user-defined function called by a template panics, the panic is now
caught and returned as an error by the `Execute` or `ExecuteTemplate`
method.

#### [time](/pkg/time/) {#timepkgtime}

The time zone database in `$GOROOT/lib/time/zoneinfo.zip` has been
updated to version 2018i. Note that this ZIP file is only used if a time
zone database is not provided by the operating system.

#### [unsafe](/pkg/unsafe/) {#unsafepkgunsafe}

It is invalid to convert a nil `unsafe.Pointer` to `uintptr` and back
with arithmetic. (This was already invalid, but will now cause the
compiler to misbehave.)
:::
:::::
