::::: {#main-content .SiteContent .SiteContent--default role="main"}
# Go 1.16 Release Notes

::: {#nav .TOC}
:::

::: markdown
## Introduction to Go 1.16 {#introduction}

The latest Go release, version 1.16, arrives six months after [Go
1.15](/doc/go1.15). Most of its changes are in the implementation of the
toolchain, runtime, and libraries. As always, the release maintains the
Go 1 [promise of compatibility](/doc/go1compat.html). We expect almost
all Go programs to continue to compile and run as before.

## Changes to the language {#language}

There are no changes to the language.

## Ports

### Darwin and iOS {#darwin}

Go 1.16 adds support of 64-bit ARM architecture on macOS (also known as
Apple Silicon) with `GOOS=darwin`, `GOARCH=arm64`. Like the
`darwin/amd64` port, the `darwin/arm64` port supports cgo, internal and
external linking, `c-archive`, `c-shared`, and `pie` build modes, and
the race detector.

The iOS port, which was previously `darwin/arm64`, has been renamed to
`ios/arm64`. `GOOS=ios` implies the `darwin` build tag, just as
`GOOS=android` implies the `linux` build tag. This change should be
transparent to anyone using gomobile to build iOS apps.

The introduction of `GOOS=ios` means that file names like `x_ios.go`
will now only be built for `GOOS=ios`; see [`go` `help`
`buildconstraint`](/cmd/go/#hdr-Build_constraints) for details. Existing
packages that use file names of this form will have to rename the files.

Go 1.16 adds an `ios/amd64` port, which targets the iOS simulator
running on AMD64-based macOS. Previously this was unofficially supported
through `darwin/amd64` with the `ios` build tag set. See also
[`misc/ios/README`](/misc/ios/README) for details about how to build
programs for iOS and iOS simulator.

Go 1.16 is the last release that will run on macOS 10.12 Sierra. Go 1.17
will require macOS 10.13 High Sierra or later.

### NetBSD

Go now supports the 64-bit ARM architecture on NetBSD (the
`netbsd/arm64` port).

### OpenBSD

Go now supports the MIPS64 architecture on OpenBSD (the `openbsd/mips64`
port). This port does not yet support cgo.

On the 64-bit x86 and 64-bit ARM architectures on OpenBSD (the
`openbsd/amd64` and `openbsd/arm64` ports), system calls are now made
through `libc`, instead of directly using the `SYSCALL`/`SVC`
instruction. This ensures forward-compatibility with future versions of
OpenBSD. In particular, OpenBSD 6.9 onwards will require system calls to
be made through `libc` for non-static Go binaries.

### 386 {#386}

As [announced](go1.15#386) in the Go 1.15 release notes, Go 1.16 drops
support for x87 mode compilation (`GO386=387`). Support for non-SSE2
processors is now available using soft float mode (`GO386=softfloat`).
Users running on non-SSE2 processors should replace `GO386=387` with
`GO386=softfloat`.

### RISC-V {#riscv}

The `linux/riscv64` port now supports cgo and `-buildmode=pie`. This
release also includes performance optimizations and code generation
improvements for RISC-V.

## Tools

### Go command

#### Modules

Module-aware mode is enabled by default, regardless of whether a
`go.mod` file is present in the current working directory or a parent
directory. More precisely, the `GO111MODULE` environment variable now
defaults to `on`. To switch to the previous behavior, set `GO111MODULE`
to `auto`.

Build commands like `go` `build` and `go` `test` no longer modify
`go.mod` and `go.sum` by default. Instead, they report an error if a
module requirement or checksum needs to be added or updated (as if the
`-mod=readonly` flag were used). Module requirements and sums may be
adjusted with `go` `mod` `tidy` or `go` `get`.

`go` `install` now accepts arguments with version suffixes (for example,
`go` `install` `example.com/cmd@v1.0.0`). This causes `go` `install` to
build and install packages in module-aware mode, ignoring the `go.mod`
file in the current directory or any parent directory, if there is one.
This is useful for installing executables without affecting the
dependencies of the main module.

`go` `install`, with or without a version suffix (as described above),
is now the recommended way to build and install packages in module mode.
`go` `get` should be used with the `-d` flag to adjust the current
module's dependencies without building packages, and use of `go` `get`
to build and install packages is deprecated. In a future release, the
`-d` flag will always be enabled.

`retract` directives may now be used in a `go.mod` file to indicate that
certain published versions of the module should not be used by other
modules. A module author may retract a version after a severe problem is
discovered or if the version was published unintentionally.

The `go` `mod` `vendor` and `go` `mod` `tidy` subcommands now accept the
`-e` flag, which instructs them to proceed despite errors in resolving
missing packages.

The `go` command now ignores requirements on module versions excluded by
`exclude` directives in the main module. Previously, the `go` command
used the next version higher than an excluded version, but that version
could change over time, resulting in non-reproducible builds.

In module mode, the `go` command now disallows import paths that include
non-ASCII characters or path elements with a leading dot character
(`.`). Module paths with these characters were already disallowed (see
[Module paths and versions](/ref/mod#go-mod-file-ident)), so this change
affects only paths within module subdirectories.

#### Embedding Files {#embed}

The `go` command now supports including static files and file trees as
part of the final executable, using the new `//go:embed` directive. See
the documentation for the new [`embed`](/pkg/embed/) package for
details.

#### `go` `test`

When using `go` `test`, a test that calls `os.Exit(0)` during execution
of a test function will now be considered to fail. This will help catch
cases in which a test calls code that calls `os.Exit(0)` and thereby
stops running all future tests. If a `TestMain` function calls
`os.Exit(0)` that is still considered to be a passing test.

`go` `test` reports an error when the `-c` or `-i` flags are used
together with unknown flags. Normally, unknown flags are passed to
tests, but when `-c` or `-i` are used, tests are not run.

#### `go` `get`

The `go` `get` `-insecure` flag is deprecated and will be removed in a
future version. This flag permits fetching from repositories and
resolving custom domains using insecure schemes such as HTTP, and also
bypasses module sum validation using the checksum database. To permit
the use of insecure schemes, use the `GOINSECURE` environment variable
instead. To bypass module sum validation, use `GOPRIVATE` or
`GONOSUMDB`. See `go` `help` `environment` for details.

`go` `get` `example.com/mod@patch` now requires that some version of
`example.com/mod` already be required by the main module. (However, `go`
`get` `-u=patch` continues to patch even newly-added dependencies.)

#### `GOVCS` environment variable {#govcs}

`GOVCS` is a new environment variable that limits which version control
tools the `go` command may use to download source code. This mitigates
security issues with tools that are typically used in trusted,
authenticated environments. By default, `git` and `hg` may be used to
download code from any repository. `svn`, `bzr`, and `fossil` may only
be used to download code from repositories with module paths or package
paths matching patterns in the `GOPRIVATE` environment variable. See
[`go` `help` `vcs`](/cmd/go/#hdr-Controlling_version_control_with_GOVCS)
for details.

#### The `all` pattern {#all-pattern}

When the main module's `go.mod` file declares `go` `1.16` or higher, the
`all` package pattern now matches only those packages that are
transitively imported by a package or test found in the main module.
(Packages imported by *tests of* packages imported by the main module
are no longer included.) This is the same set of packages retained by
`go` `mod` `vendor` since Go 1.11.

#### The `-toolexec` build flag {#toolexec}

When the `-toolexec` build flag is specified to use a program when
invoking toolchain programs like compile or asm, the environment
variable `TOOLEXEC_IMPORTPATH` is now set to the import path of the
package being built.

#### The `-i` build flag {#i-flag}

The `-i` flag accepted by `go` `build`, `go` `install`, and `go` `test`
is now deprecated. The `-i` flag instructs the `go` command to install
packages imported by packages named on the command line. Since the build
cache was introduced in Go 1.10, the `-i` flag no longer has a
significant effect on build times, and it causes errors when the install
directory is not writable.

#### The `list` command {#list-buildid}

When the `-export` flag is specified, the `BuildID` field is now set to
the build ID of the compiled package. This is equivalent to running `go`
`tool` `buildid` on `go` `list` `-exported` `-f` `{{.Export}}`, but
without the extra step.

#### The `-overlay` flag {#overlay-flag}

The `-overlay` flag specifies a JSON configuration file containing a set
of file path replacements. The `-overlay` flag may be used with all
build commands and `go` `mod` subcommands. It is primarily intended to
be used by editor tooling such as gopls to understand the effects of
unsaved changes to source files. The config file maps actual file paths
to replacement file paths and the `go` command and its builds will run
as if the actual file paths exist with the contents given by the
replacement file paths, or don't exist if the replacement file paths are
empty.

### Cgo

The [cgo](/cmd/cgo) tool will no longer try to translate C struct
bitfields into Go struct fields, even if their size can be represented
in Go. The order in which C bitfields appear in memory is implementation
dependent, so in some cases the cgo tool produced results that were
silently incorrect.

### Vet

#### New warning for invalid testing.T use in goroutines {#vet-testing-T}

The vet tool now warns about invalid calls to the `testing.T` method
`Fatal` from within a goroutine created during the test. This also warns
on calls to `Fatalf`, `FailNow`, and `Skip{,f,Now}` methods on
`testing.T` tests or `testing.B` benchmarks.

Calls to these methods stop the execution of the created goroutine and
not the `Test*` or `Benchmark*` function. So these are
[required](/pkg/testing/#T.FailNow) to be called by the goroutine
running the test or benchmark function. For example:

    func TestFoo(t *testing.T) {
        go func() {
            if condition() {
                t.Fatal("oops") // This exits the inner func instead of TestFoo.
            }
            ...
        }()
    }

Code calling `t.Fatal` (or a similar method) from a created goroutine
should be rewritten to signal the test failure using `t.Error` and exit
the goroutine early using an alternative method, such as using a
`return` statement. The previous example could be rewritten as:

    func TestFoo(t *testing.T) {
        go func() {
            if condition() {
                t.Error("oops")
                return
            }
            ...
        }()
    }

#### New warning for frame pointer {#vet-frame-pointer}

The vet tool now warns about amd64 assembly that clobbers the BP
register (the frame pointer) without saving and restoring it, contrary
to the calling convention. Code that doesn't preserve the BP register
must be modified to either not use BP at all or preserve BP by saving
and restoring it. An easy way to preserve BP is to set the frame size to
a nonzero value, which causes the generated prologue and epilogue to
preserve the BP register for you. See [CL 248260](/cl/248260) for
example fixes.

#### New warning for asn1.Unmarshal {#vet-asn1-unmarshal}

The vet tool now warns about incorrectly passing a non-pointer or nil
argument to [`asn1.Unmarshal`](/pkg/encoding/asn1/#Unmarshal). This is
like the existing checks for
[`encoding/json.Unmarshal`](/pkg/encoding/json/#Unmarshal) and
[`encoding/xml.Unmarshal`](/pkg/encoding/xml/#Unmarshal).

## Runtime

The new [`runtime/metrics`](/pkg/runtime/metrics/) package introduces a
stable interface for reading implementation-defined metrics from the Go
runtime. It supersedes existing functions like
[`runtime.ReadMemStats`](/pkg/runtime/#ReadMemStats) and
[`debug.GCStats`](/pkg/runtime/debug/#GCStats) and is significantly more
general and efficient. See the package documentation for more details.

Setting the `GODEBUG` environment variable to `inittrace=1` now causes
the runtime to emit a single line to standard error for each package
`init`, summarizing its execution time and memory allocation. This trace
can be used to find bottlenecks or regressions in Go startup
performance. The [`GODEBUG`
documentation](/pkg/runtime/#hdr-Environment_Variables) describes the
format.

On Linux, the runtime now defaults to releasing memory to the operating
system promptly (using `MADV_DONTNEED`), rather than lazily when the
operating system is under memory pressure (using `MADV_FREE`). This
means process-level memory statistics like RSS will more accurately
reflect the amount of physical memory being used by Go processes.
Systems that are currently using `GODEBUG=madvdontneed=1` to improve
memory monitoring behavior no longer need to set this environment
variable.

Go 1.16 fixes a discrepancy between the race detector and the [Go memory
model](/ref/mem). The race detector now more precisely follows the
channel synchronization rules of the memory model. As a result, the
detector may now report races it previously missed.

## Compiler

The compiler can now inline functions with non-labeled `for` loops,
method values, and type switches. The inliner can also detect more
indirect calls where inlining is possible.

## Linker

This release includes additional improvements to the Go linker, reducing
linker resource usage (both time and memory) and improving code
robustness/maintainability. These changes form the second half of a
two-release project to [modernize the Go linker](/s/better-linker).

The linker changes in 1.16 extend the 1.15 improvements to all supported
architecture/OS combinations (the 1.15 performance improvements were
primarily focused on `ELF`-based OSes and `amd64` architectures). For a
representative set of large Go programs, linking is 20-25% faster than
1.15 and requires 5-15% less memory on average for `linux/amd64`, with
larger improvements for other architectures and OSes. Most binaries are
also smaller as a result of more aggressive symbol pruning.

On Windows, `go build -buildmode=c-shared` now generates Windows ASLR
DLLs by default. ASLR can be disabled with `--ldflags=-aslr=false`.

## Standard library {#library}

### Embedded Files {#library-embed}

The new [`embed`](/pkg/embed/) package provides access to files embedded
in the program during compilation using the new [`//go:embed`
directive](#embed).

### File Systems {#fs}

The new [`io/fs`](/pkg/io/fs/) package defines the
[`fs.FS`](/pkg/io/fs/#FS) interface, an abstraction for read-only trees
of files. The standard library packages have been adapted to make use of
the interface as appropriate.

On the producer side of the interface, the new
[`embed.FS`](/pkg/embed/#FS) type implements `fs.FS`, as does
[`zip.Reader`](/pkg/archive/zip/#Reader). The new
[`os.DirFS`](/pkg/os/#DirFS) function provides an implementation of
`fs.FS` backed by a tree of operating system files.

On the consumer side, the new [`http.FS`](/pkg/net/http/#FS) function
converts an `fs.FS` to an
[`http.FileSystem`](/pkg/net/http/#FileSystem). Also, the
[`html/template`](/pkg/html/template/) and
[`text/template`](/pkg/text/template/) packages'
[`ParseFS`](/pkg/html/template/#ParseFS) functions and methods read
templates from an `fs.FS`.

For testing code that implements `fs.FS`, the new
[`testing/fstest`](/pkg/testing/fstest/) package provides a
[`TestFS`](/pkg/testing/fstest/#TestFS) function that checks for and
reports common mistakes. It also provides a simple in-memory file system
implementation, [`MapFS`](/pkg/testing/fstest/#MapFS), which can be
useful for testing code that accepts `fs.FS` implementations.

### Deprecation of io/ioutil {#ioutil}

The [`io/ioutil`](/pkg/io/ioutil/) package has turned out to be a poorly
defined and hard to understand collection of things. All functionality
provided by the package has been moved to other packages. The
`io/ioutil` package remains and will continue to work as before, but we
encourage new code to use the new definitions in the [`io`](/pkg/io/)
and [`os`](/pkg/os/) packages. Here is a list of the new locations of
the names exported by `io/ioutil`:

- [`Discard`](/pkg/io/ioutil/#Discard) =\>
  [`io.Discard`](/pkg/io/#Discard)
- [`NopCloser`](/pkg/io/ioutil/#NopCloser) =\>
  [`io.NopCloser`](/pkg/io/#NopCloser)
- [`ReadAll`](/pkg/io/ioutil/#ReadAll) =\>
  [`io.ReadAll`](/pkg/io/#ReadAll)
- [`ReadDir`](/pkg/io/ioutil/#ReadDir) =\>
  [`os.ReadDir`](/pkg/os/#ReadDir) (note: returns a slice of
  [`os.DirEntry`](/pkg/os/#DirEntry) rather than a slice of
  [`fs.FileInfo`](/pkg/io/fs/#FileInfo))
- [`ReadFile`](/pkg/io/ioutil/#ReadFile) =\>
  [`os.ReadFile`](/pkg/os/#ReadFile)
- [`TempDir`](/pkg/io/ioutil/#TempDir) =\>
  [`os.MkdirTemp`](/pkg/os/#MkdirTemp)
- [`TempFile`](/pkg/io/ioutil/#TempFile) =\>
  [`os.CreateTemp`](/pkg/os/#CreateTemp)
- [`WriteFile`](/pkg/io/ioutil/#WriteFile) =\>
  [`os.WriteFile`](/pkg/os/#WriteFile)

### Minor changes to the library {#minor_library_changes}

As always, there are various minor changes and updates to the library,
made with the Go 1 [promise of compatibility](/doc/go1compat) in mind.

#### [archive/zip](/pkg/archive/zip/) {#archivezippkgarchivezip}

The new [`Reader.Open`](/pkg/archive/zip/#Reader.Open) method implements
the [`fs.FS`](/pkg/io/fs/#FS) interface.

#### [crypto/dsa](/pkg/crypto/dsa/) {#cryptodsapkgcryptodsa}

The [`crypto/dsa`](/pkg/crypto/dsa/) package is now deprecated. See
[issue #40337](/issue/40337).

#### [crypto/hmac](/pkg/crypto/hmac/) {#cryptohmacpkgcryptohmac}

[`New`](/pkg/crypto/hmac/#New) will now panic if separate calls to the
hash generation function fail to return new values. Previously, the
behavior was undefined and invalid outputs were sometimes generated.

#### [crypto/tls](/pkg/crypto/tls/) {#cryptotlspkgcryptotls}

I/O operations on closing or closed TLS connections can now be detected
using the new [`net.ErrClosed`](/pkg/net/#ErrClosed) error. A typical
use would be `errors.Is(err, net.ErrClosed)`.

A default write deadline is now set in
[`Conn.Close`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#Conn.Close) before sending the "close
notify" alert, in order to prevent blocking indefinitely.

Clients now return a handshake error if the server selects [an ALPN
protocol](/pkg/crypto/tls/#ConnectionState.NegotiatedProtocol) that was
not in [the list advertised by the
client](/pkg/crypto/tls/#Config.NextProtos).

Servers will now prefer other available AEAD cipher suites (such as
ChaCha20Poly1305) over AES-GCM cipher suites if either the client or
server doesn't have AES hardware support, unless both
[`Config.PreferServerCipherSuites`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#Config.PreferServerCipherSuites)
and [`Config.CipherSuites`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#Config.CipherSuites) are
set. The client is assumed not to have AES hardware support if it does
not signal a preference for AES-GCM cipher suites.

[`Config.Clone`](/pkg/crypto/tls/#Config.Clone) now returns nil if the
receiver is nil, rather than panicking.

#### [crypto/x509](/pkg/crypto/x509/) {#cryptox509pkgcryptox509}

The `GODEBUG=x509ignoreCN=0` flag will be removed in Go 1.17. It enables
the legacy behavior of treating the `CommonName` field on X.509
certificates as a host name when no Subject Alternative Names are
present.

[`ParseCertificate`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#ParseCertificate) and
[`CreateCertificate`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#CreateCertificate) now enforce
string encoding restrictions for the `DNSNames`, `EmailAddresses`, and
`URIs` fields. These fields can only contain strings with characters
within the ASCII range.

[`CreateCertificate`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#CreateCertificate) now verifies
the generated certificate's signature using the signer's public key. If
the signature is invalid, an error is returned, instead of a malformed
certificate.

DSA signature verification is no longer supported. Note that DSA
signature generation was never supported. See [issue
#40337](/issue/40337).

On Windows, [`Certificate.Verify`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#Certificate.Verify)
will now return all certificate chains that are built by the platform
certificate verifier, instead of just the highest ranked chain.

The new
[`SystemRootsError.Unwrap`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#SystemRootsError.Unwrap)
method allows accessing the
[`Err`](/pkg/crypto/x509/#SystemRootsError.Err) field through the
[`errors`](/pkg/errors) package functions.

On Unix systems, the `crypto/x509` package is now more efficient in how
it stores its copy of the system cert pool. Programs that use only a
small number of roots will use around a half megabyte less memory.

#### [debug/elf](/pkg/debug/elf/) {#debugelfpkgdebugelf}

More [`DT`](/pkg/debug/elf/#DT_NULL) and [`PT`](/pkg/debug/elf/#PT_NULL)
constants have been added.

#### [encoding/asn1](/pkg/encoding/asn1) {#encodingasn1pkgencodingasn1}

[`Unmarshal`](/pkg/encoding/asn1/#Unmarshal) and
[`UnmarshalWithParams`](/pkg/encoding/asn1/#UnmarshalWithParams) now
return an error instead of panicking when the argument is not a pointer
or is nil. This change matches the behavior of other encoding packages
such as [`encoding/json`](/pkg/encoding/json).

#### [encoding/json](/pkg/encoding/json/) {#encodingjsonpkgencodingjson}

The `json` struct field tags understood by
[`Marshal`](/pkg/encoding/json/#Marshal),
[`Unmarshal`](/pkg/encoding/json/#Unmarshal), and related functionality
now permit semicolon characters within a JSON object name for a Go
struct field.

#### [encoding/xml](/pkg/encoding/xml/) {#encodingxmlpkgencodingxml}

The encoder has always taken care to avoid using namespace prefixes
beginning with `xml`, which are reserved by the XML specification. Now,
following the specification more closely, that check is
case-insensitive, so that prefixes beginning with `XML`, `XmL`, and so
on are also avoided.

#### [flag](/pkg/flag/) {#flagpkgflag}

The new [`Func`](/pkg/flag/#Func) function allows registering a flag
implemented by calling a function, as a lighter-weight alternative to
implementing the [`Value`](/pkg/flag/#Value) interface.

#### [go/build](/pkg/go/build/) {#gobuildpkggobuild}

The [`Package`](/pkg/go/build/#Package) struct has new fields that
report information about `//go:embed` directives in the package:
[`EmbedPatterns`](/pkg/go/build/#Package.EmbedPatterns),
[`EmbedPatternPos`](/pkg/go/build/#Package.EmbedPatternPos),
[`TestEmbedPatterns`](/pkg/go/build/#Package.TestEmbedPatterns),
[`TestEmbedPatternPos`](/pkg/go/build/#Package.TestEmbedPatternPos),
[`XTestEmbedPatterns`](/pkg/go/build/#Package.XTestEmbedPatterns),
[`XTestEmbedPatternPos`](/pkg/go/build/#Package.XTestEmbedPatternPos).

The [`Package`](/pkg/go/build/#Package) field
[`IgnoredGoFiles`](/pkg/go/build/#Package.IgnoredGoFiles) will no longer
include files that start with "\_" or ".", as those files are always
ignored. `IgnoredGoFiles` is for files ignored because of build
constraints.

The new [`Package`](/pkg/go/build/#Package) field
[`IgnoredOtherFiles`](/pkg/go/build/#Package.IgnoredOtherFiles) has a
list of non-Go files ignored because of build constraints.

#### [go/build/constraint](/pkg/go/build/constraint/) {#gobuildconstraintpkggobuildconstraint}

The new [`go/build/constraint`](/pkg/go/build/constraint/) package
parses build constraint lines, both the original `// +build` syntax and
the `//go:build` syntax that will be introduced in Go 1.17. This package
exists so that tools built with Go 1.16 will be able to process Go 1.17
source code. See
[https://golang.org/design/draft-gobuild](/design/draft-gobuild) for
details about the build constraint syntaxes and the planned transition
to the `//go:build` syntax. Note that `//go:build` lines are **not**
supported in Go 1.16 and should not be introduced into Go programs yet.

#### [html/template](/pkg/html/template/) {#htmltemplatepkghtmltemplate}

The new [`template.ParseFS`](/pkg/html/template/#ParseFS) function and
[`template.Template.ParseFS`](/pkg/html/template/#Template.ParseFS)
method are like [`template.ParseGlob`](/pkg/html/template/#ParseGlob)
and
[`template.Template.ParseGlob`](/pkg/html/template/#Template.ParseGlob),
but read the templates from an [`fs.FS`](/pkg/io/fs/#FS).

#### [io](/pkg/io/) {#iopkgio}

The package now defines a [`ReadSeekCloser`](/pkg/io/#ReadSeekCloser)
interface.

The package now defines [`Discard`](/pkg/io/#Discard),
[`NopCloser`](/pkg/io/#NopCloser), and [`ReadAll`](/pkg/io/#ReadAll), to
be used instead of the same names in the [`io/ioutil`](/pkg/io/ioutil/)
package.

#### [log](/pkg/log/) {#logpkglog}

The new [`Default`](/pkg/log/#Default) function provides access to the
default [`Logger`](/pkg/log/#Logger).

#### [log/syslog](/pkg/log/syslog/) {#logsyslogpkglogsyslog}

The [`Writer`](/pkg/log/syslog/#Writer) now uses the local message
format (omitting the host name and using a shorter time stamp) when
logging to custom Unix domain sockets, matching the format already used
for the default log socket.

#### [mime/multipart](/pkg/mime/multipart/) {#mimemultipartpkgmimemultipart}

The [`Reader`](/pkg/mime/multipart/#Reader)'s
[`ReadForm`](/pkg/mime/multipart/#Reader.ReadForm) method no longer
rejects form data when passed the maximum int64 value as a limit.

#### [net](/pkg/net/) {#netpkgnet}

The case of I/O on a closed network connection, or I/O on a network
connection that is closed before any of the I/O completes, can now be
detected using the new [`ErrClosed`](/pkg/net/#ErrClosed) error. A
typical use would be `errors.Is(err, net.ErrClosed)`. In earlier
releases the only way to reliably detect this case was to match the
string returned by the `Error` method with
`"use of closed network connection"`.

In previous Go releases the default TCP listener backlog size on Linux
systems, set by `/proc/sys/net/core/somaxconn`, was limited to a maximum
of `65535`. On Linux kernel version 4.1 and above, the maximum is now
`4294967295`.

On Linux, host name lookups no longer use DNS before checking
`/etc/hosts` when `/etc/nsswitch.conf` is missing; this is common on
musl-based systems and makes Go programs match the behavior of C
programs on those systems.

#### [net/http](/pkg/net/http/) {#nethttppkgnethttp}

In the [`net/http`](/pkg/net/http/) package, the behavior of
[`StripPrefix`](/pkg/net/http/#StripPrefix) has been changed to strip
the prefix from the request URL's `RawPath` field in addition to its
`Path` field. In past releases, only the `Path` field was trimmed, and
so if the request URL contained any escaped characters the URL would be
modified to have mismatched `Path` and `RawPath` fields. In Go 1.16,
`StripPrefix` trims both fields. If there are escaped characters in the
prefix part of the request URL the handler serves a 404 instead of its
previous behavior of invoking the underlying handler with a mismatched
`Path`/`RawPath` pair.

The [`net/http`](/pkg/net/http/) package now rejects HTTP range requests
of the form `"Range": "bytes=--N"` where `"-N"` is a negative suffix
length, for example `"Range": "bytes=--2"`. It now replies with a
`416 "Range Not Satisfiable"` response.

Cookies set with
[`SameSiteDefaultMode`](/pkg/net/http/#SameSiteDefaultMode) now behave
according to the current spec (no attribute is set) instead of
generating a SameSite key without a value.

The [`Client`](/pkg/net/http/#Client) now sends an explicit
`Content-Length:` `0` header in `PATCH` requests with empty bodies,
matching the existing behavior of `POST` and `PUT`.

The [`ProxyFromEnvironment`](/pkg/net/http/#ProxyFromEnvironment)
function no longer returns the setting of the `HTTP_PROXY` environment
variable for `https://` URLs when `HTTPS_PROXY` is unset.

The [`Transport`](/pkg/net/http/#Transport) type has a new field
[`GetProxyConnectHeader`](/pkg/net/http/#Transport.GetProxyConnectHeader)
which may be set to a function that returns headers to send to a proxy
during a `CONNECT` request. In effect `GetProxyConnectHeader` is a
dynamic version of the existing field
[`ProxyConnectHeader`](/pkg/net/http/#Transport.ProxyConnectHeader); if
`GetProxyConnectHeader` is not `nil`, then `ProxyConnectHeader` is
ignored.

The new [`http.FS`](/pkg/net/http/#FS) function converts an
[`fs.FS`](/pkg/io/fs/#FS) to an
[`http.FileSystem`](/pkg/net/http/#FileSystem).

#### [net/http/httputil](/pkg/net/http/httputil/) {#nethttphttputilpkgnethttphttputil}

[`ReverseProxy`](/pkg/net/http/httputil/#ReverseProxy) now flushes
buffered data more aggressively when proxying streamed responses with
unknown body lengths.

#### [net/smtp](/pkg/net/smtp/) {#netsmtppkgnetsmtp}

The [`Client`](/pkg/net/smtp/#Client)'s
[`Mail`](/pkg/net/smtp/#Client.Mail) method now sends the `SMTPUTF8`
directive to servers that support it, signaling that addresses are
encoded in UTF-8.

#### [os](/pkg/os/) {#ospkgos}

[`Process.Signal`](/pkg/os/#Process.Signal) now returns
[`ErrProcessDone`](/pkg/os/#ErrProcessDone) instead of the unexported
`errFinished` when the process has already finished.

The package defines a new type [`DirEntry`](/pkg/os/#DirEntry) as an
alias for [`fs.DirEntry`](/pkg/io/fs/#DirEntry). The new
[`ReadDir`](/pkg/os/#ReadDir) function and the new
[`File.ReadDir`](/pkg/os/#File.ReadDir) method can be used to read the
contents of a directory into a slice of [`DirEntry`](/pkg/os/#DirEntry).
The [`File.Readdir`](/pkg/os/#File.Readdir) method (note the lower case
`d` in `dir`) still exists, returning a slice of
[`FileInfo`](/pkg/os/#FileInfo), but for most programs it will be more
efficient to switch to [`File.ReadDir`](/pkg/os/#File.ReadDir).

The package now defines [`CreateTemp`](/pkg/os/#CreateTemp),
[`MkdirTemp`](/pkg/os/#MkdirTemp), [`ReadFile`](/pkg/os/#ReadFile), and
[`WriteFile`](/pkg/os/#WriteFile), to be used instead of functions
defined in the [`io/ioutil`](/pkg/io/ioutil/) package.

The types [`FileInfo`](/pkg/os/#FileInfo),
[`FileMode`](/pkg/os/#FileMode), and [`PathError`](/pkg/os/#PathError)
are now aliases for types of the same name in the [`io/fs`](/pkg/io/fs/)
package. Function signatures in the [`os`](/pkg/os/) package have been
updated to refer to the names in the [`io/fs`](/pkg/io/fs/) package.
This should not affect any existing code.

The new [`DirFS`](/pkg/os/#DirFS) function provides an implementation of
[`fs.FS`](/pkg/io/fs/#FS) backed by a tree of operating system files.

#### [os/signal](/pkg/os/signal/) {#ossignalpkgossignal}

The new [`NotifyContext`](/pkg/os/signal/#NotifyContext) function allows
creating contexts that are canceled upon arrival of specific signals.

#### [path](/pkg/path/) {#pathpkgpath}

The [`Match`](/pkg/path/#Match) function now returns an error if the
unmatched part of the pattern has a syntax error. Previously, the
function returned early on a failed match, and thus did not report any
later syntax error in the pattern.

#### [path/filepath](/pkg/path/filepath/) {#pathfilepathpkgpathfilepath}

The new function [`WalkDir`](/pkg/path/filepath/#WalkDir) is similar to
[`Walk`](/pkg/path/filepath/#Walk), but is typically more efficient. The
function passed to `WalkDir` receives a
[`fs.DirEntry`](/pkg/io/fs/#DirEntry) instead of a
[`fs.FileInfo`](/pkg/io/fs/#FileInfo). (To clarify for those who recall
the `Walk` function as taking an [`os.FileInfo`](/pkg/os/#FileInfo),
`os.FileInfo` is now an alias for `fs.FileInfo`.)

The [`Match`](/pkg/path/filepath#Match) and
[`Glob`](/pkg/path/filepath#Glob) functions now return an error if the
unmatched part of the pattern has a syntax error. Previously, the
functions returned early on a failed match, and thus did not report any
later syntax error in the pattern.

#### [reflect](/pkg/reflect/) {#reflectpkgreflect}

The Zero function has been optimized to avoid allocations. Code which
incorrectly compares the returned Value to another Value using == or
DeepEqual may get different results than those obtained in previous Go
versions. The documentation for [`reflect.Value`](/pkg/reflect#Value)
describes how to compare two `Value`s correctly.

#### [runtime/debug](/pkg/runtime/debug/) {#runtimedebugpkgruntimedebug}

The [`runtime.Error`](/pkg/runtime#Error) values used when
`SetPanicOnFault` is enabled may now have an `Addr` method. If that
method exists, it returns the memory address that triggered the fault.

#### [strconv](/pkg/strconv/) {#strconvpkgstrconv}

[`ParseFloat`](/pkg/strconv/#ParseFloat) now uses the [Eisel-Lemire
algorithm](https://nigeltao.github.io/blog/2020/eisel-lemire.html){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"}, improving performance by up to a factor of 2. This can
also speed up decoding textual formats like
[`encoding/json`](/pkg/encoding/json/).

#### [syscall](/pkg/syscall/) {#syscallpkgsyscall}

[`NewCallback`](/pkg/syscall/?GOOS=windows#NewCallback) and
[`NewCallbackCDecl`](/pkg/syscall/?GOOS=windows#NewCallbackCDecl) now
correctly support callback functions with multiple sub-`uintptr`-sized
arguments in a row. This may require changing uses of these functions to
eliminate manual padding between small arguments.

[`SysProcAttr`](/pkg/syscall/?GOOS=windows#SysProcAttr) on Windows has a
new `NoInheritHandles` field that disables inheriting handles when
creating a new process.

[`DLLError`](/pkg/syscall/?GOOS=windows#DLLError) on Windows now has an
`Unwrap` method for unwrapping its underlying error.

On Linux, [`Setgid`](/pkg/syscall/#Setgid),
[`Setuid`](/pkg/syscall/#Setuid), and related calls are now implemented.
Previously, they returned an `syscall.EOPNOTSUPP` error.

On Linux, the new functions
[`AllThreadsSyscall`](/pkg/syscall/#AllThreadsSyscall) and
[`AllThreadsSyscall6`](/pkg/syscall/#AllThreadsSyscall6) may be used to
make a system call on all Go threads in the process. These functions may
only be used by programs that do not use cgo; if a program uses cgo,
they will always return [`syscall.ENOTSUP`](/pkg/syscall/#ENOTSUP).

#### [testing/iotest](/pkg/testing/iotest/) {#testingiotestpkgtestingiotest}

The new [`ErrReader`](/pkg/testing/iotest/#ErrReader) function returns
an [`io.Reader`](/pkg/io/#Reader) that always returns an error.

The new [`TestReader`](/pkg/testing/iotest/#TestReader) function tests
that an [`io.Reader`](/pkg/io/#Reader) behaves correctly.

#### [text/template](/pkg/text/template/) {#texttemplatepkgtexttemplate}

Newlines characters are now allowed inside action delimiters, permitting
actions to span multiple lines.

The new [`template.ParseFS`](/pkg/text/template/#ParseFS) function and
[`template.Template.ParseFS`](/pkg/text/template/#Template.ParseFS)
method are like [`template.ParseGlob`](/pkg/text/template/#ParseGlob)
and
[`template.Template.ParseGlob`](/pkg/text/template/#Template.ParseGlob),
but read the templates from an [`fs.FS`](/pkg/io/fs/#FS).

#### [text/template/parse](/pkg/text/template/parse/) {#texttemplateparsepkgtexttemplateparse}

A new [`CommentNode`](/pkg/text/template/parse/#CommentNode) was added
to the parse tree. The [`Mode`](/pkg/text/template/parse/#Mode) field in
the `parse.Tree` enables access to it.

#### [time/tzdata](/pkg/time/tzdata/) {#timetzdatapkgtimetzdata}

The slim timezone data format is now used for the timezone database in
`$GOROOT/lib/time/zoneinfo.zip` and the embedded copy in this package.
This reduces the size of the timezone database by about 350 KB.

#### [unicode](/pkg/unicode/) {#unicodepkgunicode}

The [`unicode`](/pkg/unicode/) package and associated support throughout
the system has been upgraded from Unicode 12.0.0 to [Unicode
13.0.0](https://www.unicode.org/versions/Unicode13.0.0/){rel="noreferrer"
target="_blank"}, which adds 5,930 new characters, including four new
scripts, and 55 new emoji. Unicode 13.0.0 also designates plane 3
(U+30000-U+3FFFF) as the tertiary ideographic plane.
:::
:::::
